---
title: "Power Rankings: Episode 15"
narrated_by: "Power-Rankers"
description: "Power Rankings! They’re rankings of power! (But only as of the instant of the end of the previous episode, as these are not meant to be future predictions!) Power Rankings!"
release_date: September 1, 2021
audio_narration:
fullvideo:
pr: S2
date: 2021-09-01T00:00:00.000Z
image: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene01.jpg
prcast:
scenes:
- scene_number: 01
  scene_title: "Hejaz"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene01.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p></p><p>Well folks, I hope you sold your Hejaz stock when I told you to, because now they are dead. All in all, Hejaz never really had much going for it. Stuck on the Arabian Peninsula, Hejaz was only ever middling at best, reaching 29 on a good day. But more often than not, Hejaz was a useful punching bag for civs like the Ptolemies, the Chola and Zaire. Honestly, the most exciting thing about them was managing to recapture their last city after losing all of them. But as I previously stated, it was not a second wind, but a last gasp.</p>"
- scene_number: 02
  scene_title: "Jerusalem"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene02.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax: Well, you want a damning indictment of Jerusalem? When I saw I was assigned these guys this week, my first thought was “huh, I’ll have to find something to say about them, not much happened to them this week”. Completely forgetting that they’d actually been eliminated. That’s how forgettable Jerusalem has been this game, fully deserving of their early exit. Even their eulogy will be pretty brief - they settled a few cities across the Middle East, losing many of them almost as soon as they were founded, and also saw their capital taken fairly early on by the Ptolemies. If you were here for Mk 2, you’ll remember how long it took for Israeli Jerusalem to fall to the Ayyubids in that game, and Israel wasn’t exactly setting the world on fire! Since then it’s just been a waiting game, and with Kurdistan being too inept to pull the trigger, Kosovo did the deed instead. So long, Baldwin. You’ll forever be the last leader to be guessed in the CBRX Leaders Sporcle quiz, at least by me.</p>"
- scene_number: 03
  scene_title: "Namibia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene03.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>Oh thank god it’s dead. Namibia has been on life support for so long and the only reason was that Zaire wanted to see it suffer. At least Lesotho had the courtesy to end them.</p>"
- scene_number: 04
  scene_title: "VOC"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene04.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>Despite dying, the VOC move up one rank thanks to others dying first. Since the start of the game, the Dutch East India Company has been in the shadow of Malacca, and there was a lot of speculation as to when Malacca would finally grab the easy cities. That never occured; instead, it was Chola who came and conquered them, including their Kerguelen colonies. The VOC were left as just the city of Makassar, adjacent to the new Hawaiian city state of Hilo. The city state vs city state war that followed was actually the most effort the VOC put into anything all game; they even used Malacca's food cheat to quickly grow the city to a gigantic size! But despite the cheats, Hilo was victorious. And thus Jan Coen suffers the great embarrassment of being killed by one of the worst civs in the game.</p>"
- scene_number: 05
  scene_title: "Ptolemies"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene05.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>So the Ptolemies are gonna die next turn so I’ll just make a preemptive eulogy. Ptolemies' death strikes as the second coming from civs having an actual impact on the game (first is Gran Colombia), so I will attempt to do it justice. The Ptolemies actually had a pretty good early game, scoring in the top 10 on a regular basis, which is especially impressive when coming out of the power struggle that is the African continent. Cleopatra was unfortunately doomed however, as her neighbors were simply too strong for her. The Ptolemies were fortunate to lock down Arabia and were looking to expand into the middle east, but the overwhelming technological prowess that was Nigeria decided to go ham at the worst possible moment for the Ptolemies, and was able to wipe them out in the blink of an eye. Part of Ptolemies' downfall is due to inactivity, however it’s hard to be active when you have three top ten neighbors blocking your every move. F.</p>"
- scene_number: 06
  scene_title: "Yuan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene06.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax: Christ, look at the wars tab on the slide! Kublai Khan must have been raging pretty hard at the dying of the light, because this nearly extinct empire is certainly attracting a lot of ire. They’ve been on death’s door for a long time, of course, but have had one secret trick up their sleeve; thanks to a minor bug in the Chukchi’s UA, their capital city has actually been located within Chukchi territory, and thus has been uncapturable for anybody not also at war with the Chukchi. Well, that all changes now, as the Chukchi themselves have declared war on Yuan, which should see this drawn out demise finally come to a conclusion. Yeah… emphasis on should, because this isn’t a certainty. The Chukchi are currently in the midst of a bad bout of peacekeeper-itis, with the Uzbeks squatting in a decent portion of their land, including Korea. Their only units that can reach the city are planes, which they don’t appear to be utilising effectively, and a single privateer. If Kublai can dispatch that privateer quickly enough, he could keep this miserable charade going a little longer. Of course, another caveat to this - the Yuan military’s a little small at the moment. Actually, it’s a little nonexistent. Even Peru-Bolivia still have a unit or two wandering about, but Yuan haven’t got a single one to their name. So it’s still fairly likely this is the last pre-eulogy write-up you’ll see for the Khan. Thankfully.</p>"
- scene_number: 07
  scene_title: "Burkina Faso"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene07.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p></p><p>Well, here we are again. Burkina Faso, once the #1 civ, is (once again), circling around the mid 40s. Only this time around, he’s got only one city. In a positive turn of events though, Thomas Sankara managed to broker a peace deal with his aggressors. Better still, Zaire peacekeepers are holding the land around Ubari in their hands, preventing anyone from taking it. While this does prevent Burkina Faso from building units, at this point, a city state protected by peacekeepers is the best they can hope for.</p>"
- scene_number: 08
  scene_title: "The Neutral Nation"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene08.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Every part, the Neutrals continue to stick around, and every part, my hopes grow that they will make it to Endgame and pull a 180 decimating every civ in their path. It’d just be rude for them to die now, Blue Cassette.</p>"
- scene_number: 09
  scene_title: "Olmecs"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene09.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy:</p><p></p><p>Due to extreme citadelling, the city of Papaloapan is now a 1 tile enclave of Marajoara. They are basically living inside the fortress itself - like vermin. One day some Marajoaran soldier is going to stumble upon them and say “Oh look! There are a bunch of hobos living in our fortress; how did they get in here? This place is supposed to be secure”</p>"
- scene_number: 10
  scene_title: "Tahiti"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene10.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>Welp, it happened, Tahiti has fallen from being a near-rump into just being a regular rump civ. In all honesty Tahiti would probably be much lower if it were not for four different civs dying (which we sadists here at the power ranking team love to see). Since Marajoara has officially made peace with Tahiti, Tahiti is now became an isolated nation, though at least the majority of the world has flight so they might visit it as a tourist destination from time to time</p>"
- scene_number: 11
  scene_title: "Chinook"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene11.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Aaaaaand North America has three city states now thanks to a definitively rumped Chinook by freaking Tongva of all civs. North American rumps have a surprisingly good track record of staying alive (other than TAT, RIP) so maybe Chinook can stick around a while, although since Tongva has been citadeling them like they have great generals coming out of factories, I doubt it.</p>"
- scene_number: 12
  scene_title: "Georgia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene12.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p></p><p>Welcome Georgia, to the city state club. You've lost nearly all your cities (to Great Perm no less), and are now relegated to dying by one of your neighbors. Pour yourself some juice, sit down next to the Yuan, and ready yourself for your eventual demise.</p>"
- scene_number: 13
  scene_title: "New Netherlands"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene13.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>A letter has reached the congress of New Netherlands, this is a recreation of the letter </p><p>“Dear New Netherlands :</p><p></p><p>Well, at least the Vandals might lose their colonies now. We won’t have them, but at least they won’t!”</p><p>There was no name of the sender and there was no return address.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 14
  scene_title: "Hawaii"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene14.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Thank the heavens! Hawaii finally came back and killed the VOC (offscreen for some reason, but I’m sure it was a valiant battle worthy of being featured in “How to fight wars good.”)  I don’t expect Hawaii to do anything else this game, but they have done more than most other rumps, and gosh dang it, I respect it!</p>"
- scene_number: 15
  scene_title: "Spain"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene15.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>I’m sure the Vandals’ collapsing American ambitions will provide some dark comfort for Spain; watching a hated enemy pratfall is the best you can hope for when you’re doomed like Spain is.</p>"
- scene_number: 16
  scene_title: "The Republic of Amata"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene16.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>We sent a reporter to get an interview with the Amatan government about their continuous success in not dying to Malacca. Unfortunately, a stray bomb turned them into a pile of paste in the streets. Don’t worry, they were just an intern, no one of value died making this PR episode. Still, until the Amatan’s get his report back to us through the blockade, we’ll have to defer back to what you’ve already seen: “Situation normal, all fucked up.”</p>"
- scene_number: 17
  scene_title: "Palmares"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene17.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax: Says a lot about where we are in the game that Palmares can rise four ranks in an episode where they didn’t even get a mention from the narrator.</p>"
- scene_number: 18
  scene_title: "Laos"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene18.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p></p><p>At this point, Laos has three options in terms of moving forward. </p><p>1) Die to Malacca </p><p></p><p>2) Die to Chola </p><p></p><p>3) Live long enough to reach the Endgame, start fresh, and then probably die to either Malacca or Chola.</p>"
- scene_number: 19
  scene_title: "Japan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene19.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>Well Japan's mainland ambitions are completely gone with the loss of Yokohama. Now they're just left with their home island which unfortunately they forgot to settle early on. On the plus side they are almost an enclave of the Chukchi. That means that Japanese survival is simply to appease the Chukchi and not worry too much about any other civ. Northern Yuan and Tongva can still technically reach them but it'd be hard.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 20
  scene_title: "Iceland"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene20.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>When I play civ, I firmly believe in going out like a real one after there are no possible pathways to victory. With that note, Iceland should declare war on Mississippi. Yes they will likely die, but it’s either that or forever being relegated to clicking next turn for days upon end. Who knows, they may be able to snipe a city, probably not, but maybe.</p>"
- scene_number: 21
  scene_title: "Bhutan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene21.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>Oh no; Bhutan are going to lose Wangdue to Uzbekistan and their atomic era army. But in the face of paratroopers, helicopters, bombers and units that can ignore mountains in general, why only 1 rank down and not more? Well, just take a look at Trashigang. Just look at it. It has been so citadelled by Punjab that (without open borders with Punjab) there is only 1 tile access and that is only available if you're a paratrooper and can kill the great war infantry and great general standing there (which, given the AI's intelligence, they probably won't). </p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 22
  scene_title: "Kurdistan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene22.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Place your bets! Who’s gonna be the first to try and kill Kurdistan? Will it be their old menace Uzbekistan? Will it be the new top dog Nigeria, or will Zaire continue to be useful and snipe them? Who knows? Who cares? Whooooooooooo.</p>"
- scene_number: 23
  scene_title: "Great Perm"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene23.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax: Mark your diaries, folks. In this episode, the unthinkable happened. Great Perm did a thing. After declaring war on Georgia last episode, they did the absolute bare minimum expected of them and took Gori. This is, it’s worth remembering, the first city Great Perm has taken all game, and the first new city they’ve added to their empire through either conquest or settlement since Episode FIVE. You know, I thought this moment would’ve felt better. Instead, the crushing apathy of the Cylinder’s most depressing space-filler boringly claiming another nation’s farflung colony about ten episodes too late just leaves me with a sense of crushing ennui. Please wake up, Lenin, put Perm out of their misery.</p>"
- scene_number: 24
  scene_title: "Zanzibar"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene24.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>As is ever the case for civs at this rung of non-power, Zanzibar’s rank rises as others fall. They have no future, they have no chances even in a coalition, and they’ve become the path of least resistance for a major power, but they aren’t dead yet, and ultimately at this point holding onto that for as long as possible and hoping Endgame favors them is their only bet.</p>"
- scene_number: 25
  scene_title: "Tongva"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene25.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg:</p><p></p><p>Tongva continues to climb, reaching a new record high of 27th, on the heels of their successful conquest of the Chinook capital. I was certainly not expecting Tongva to pull that off, and I don’t think many of us were, but you really do have to hand it to them. At the same time, it’s not clear that their prospects are any better than they were before. Having taken out their only weak neighbor, they’re now surrounded by Rio Grande and the Chukchi (their borders with anyone else are negligible). The main question now is whether one of these powers eats them, or they survive to Cycle 2 and get a fresh start.</p>"
- scene_number: 26
  scene_title: "Mississippi"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene26.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Whelp! The disintegration of Mississippi has been a long time coming. They’ve been a big useless wart on North America for a while: not bad enough to have no impact on the game, but not nearly good enough to have more than a pixie sized chance of winning the entire BR. Their imminent collapse was predicted, and now it really matters who’s going to get the pieces of their empire. That question might decide North America as a whole, so let it not be said they played no part in this game. We should respect their ability to play kingmaker.</p>"
- scene_number: 27
  scene_title: "Sweden"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene27.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>German citadels have reached Stockholm. However, Germany has kindly given open borders and not stationed any troops there. So Sweden can pretend that they own the place. And pretending to be good is pretty much all you can expect from Sweden. Also some Uzbek helicopters and paratroopers are attacking but appear to be too spread out and blocked by geography to actually do any harm.</p>"
- scene_number: 28
  scene_title: "Finland"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene28.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>The entire collective nation of Finland took a sauna vacation this part and thus did nothing.</p>"
- scene_number: 29
  scene_title: "Kosovo"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene29.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p></p><p>Let’s be real with ourselves here, we all know Kosovo is gonna win this. I mean, we have actual Albania a little bit and as long as we dont get swallowed wholesale by Germany it’s fine. Two Sicilies better watch themselves along with the Gauls. We're about to fuck around and find out!</p><p></p><p>Actually Msurdej: Ok, my girlfriend's positivity aside, Kosovo has actually done pretty well the past few parts. The only issue is will they be able to keep rising. I know at least one person who believes in them.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 30
  scene_title: "Paraguay"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene30.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Compared to the joke fodder civs elsewhere like Kurdistan, Paraguay has slightly more going for them, so I guess we might as well give them a little bit of analysis. They have two paths forward, but neither is very good. One is to get in on a Mapuche coalition, and unite the two sides of their empire. This isn’t a completely insane proposition. The Kulin are doing a surprisingly good job of annoying the Mapuche, and Marajoara is gonna try for round two against Mapuche at some point. They could snag a few cities and build a slightly better base, but they’re just as likely to annoy either of their neighbors enough to murder them.</p><p></p><p>The other option for them is to try and survive until Endgame where everybody starts over. This would likely kick their supposedly aggressive AI into high gear and could allow them to snipe an early kill on Mapuche, but even if they did that, they still wouldn’t be in great shape against a Marajoaran juggernaut. Really, I catalogue these options more as theoretical what ifs than actual hopes. Of the civs in the “somehow still existing” pile, Paraguay is probably the best, but they probably aren’t gonna do anything else this game. If they do, well, you’ll know I called it.</p>"
- scene_number: 31
  scene_title: "Two Sicilies"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene31.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax: If the protracted war with Germany has proven anything, it’s how ineffectual Germany’s superior stats have proven on the field of battle. This is a civ that was strongly tipped to unite Europe, but has thus far failed to win more than a couple of wars convincingly, against Sweden and Iceland, two nations who they honestly perhaps should have taken more from. On the other hand, Two Sicilies’ performance has merely confirmed what we’ve always known; their naval UA and subsequent dominance makes all their cities certain flipfests, and prevents nations from making concerted efforts on their core, even well into the era of flight. Naples briefly falling was a big concern, and I was a little worried the whole house of cards would fall down soon after, but as it stands it looks like they might well be walking out of this war with everything but Gjakovë and Palermo intact, and even a bonus city in the form of Hermoupolis on the Red Sea. Given Endgame is not so far away, this is likely the last major war they’ll fight with Germany, so they should have ensured that they’ll have a decent shot when that rolls around - use that navy to bother a weakened Vandals beforehand and they could yet shoot back up into the upper echelons of the rankings.</p>"
- scene_number: 32
  scene_title: "Taiping"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene32.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg:</p><p></p><p>Taiping is increasingly owning its position at the top of the no-hopers. Several of the civs above them are also unlikely to recover and become a major contender, but Taiping is either #1 or #2 among the civs that are in fact totally out of it and just waiting to die. The fact that that’s what 20th place gets you shows how far this game has come. </p>"
- scene_number: 33
  scene_title: "Northern Yuan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene33.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>Big increase for the best Yuan as they overtake not only the floundering 2 Sicilies and Mississippi but also Paraguay and Taiping. Northern Yuan has suffered a lot from terrible science throughout the game but have finally reached the big milestone (and stat boost) of factories and ideology (they picked autocracy). Now they're still horribly behind in tech but at least they have production. This part they finally took out the last remnants of Osaka and have have attempted to remove the worst Yuan. Unfortunately, the worst Yuan are protected by Chukchi border bullshit so Northern Yuan won't be able to do the deed.</p>"
- scene_number: 34
  scene_title: "Lesotho"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene34.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>Lesotho did something! They put Namibia out of its misery! This is Lesotho's first city capture of the game and hence first military victory! Woo! Apart from that, Lesotho are still trapped by the more powerful Zaire, which means their only good expansion opportunity is Zanzibar. In the past their absolute refusal to research any naval techs also made a fight against Zanzibar a right pain which would cause many unnecessary losses. Now, although Lesotho still don't have navigation or oil, they do have paratroopers, destroyers and are currently researching nukes, which will greatly simplify the fight. That is some genuinely great tech that would put them in the top 10 if they weren't on the same continent as Zaire and Nigeria.</p>"
- scene_number: 35
  scene_title: "The Mapuche"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene35.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>A pretty decent part for the boys in brown, as they took Temo Ko back and peaced out with their continental rivals to focus on their Australian Assailants. That fight isn’t over, but at present, the Mapuche have successfully brought forces to bear against the Kulin near Australia proper, which is a good sign for them. Long term, the significantly higher productive capacity of the Kulin should win the day barring an unfortunate declaration by Malacca. Still, props for having made it this far.</p>"
- scene_number: 36
  scene_title: "Gauls"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene36.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>The Gauls are still pretty powerful yet overshadowed by Germany due to their poor science. Now that they have navigation, they could pretty easily conquer Spain or Iceland and get a bunch of free cities. They could ally up with Germany against 2 Sicilies in a bid to take Alesia back (and maybe snipe a few more cities?) while also getting favour with Germany. They could even use the long peace as an opportunity to tech hard (like what the USSR or Dene are doing) with the aim of overtaking Germany or at least catching up with them while Germany gets bogged down in war. They're not doing any of that. The Gauls are just sleeping.</p>"
- scene_number: 37
  scene_title: "The Dene"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene37.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax: The Dene stand at a bit of an intersection. Their primary rival this game have been the Mississippi, long considered the most powerful civ in North America. Well, we’re seeing the once resplendent nation being eviscerated by Rio Grande, who may also be at war with the Marajoara, but have absolutely nothing to fear from them thanks to their defence bug. All of a sudden, the Dene have a great opportunity to bolster their nation’s standings before Endgame comes, and there’s a couple of ways to do this. Firstly, join in on the war against their age-old Mississipian rivals, and seize the northern half of that empire while Rio Grande takes the bulk of the south. The advantages for this it’d be a walk in the park, but the disadvantage is the chance of a low return (with Rio Grandean snipes) and a powerful new neighbour. The riskier strategy is to instead declare war on Rio Grande, and take their new Mississippian conquests before the notorious bug makes them all unassailable. It could backfire tremendously, but if they succeeded they’d easily be the biggest North American power pre-Endgame. Either way, they’re in good stead for the reboot - all their nearby rivals are rumpified, so they’ll have ample room to expand and flex from day one.</p>"
- scene_number: 38
  scene_title: "PARG"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene38.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg:</p><p></p><p>The Provisional All-Russian Government slips back to to tie its lowest ever ranking of 14th as the power rankers become increasingly concerned about their outdated tech and lack of a carpet. With large but poorly defended civs collapsing left and right, PARG looks like one of the most vulnerable, due in large part to its long border with the heavily militarized Uzbekistan. Their good stats mean that if they survive until Cycle 2 they’ll be in a decent position, but we are increasingly worried that they won’t last that long.</p>"
- scene_number: 39
  scene_title: "Chola"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene39.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p>Chola spent the part recovering from the war with Punjab last part. And they are still pretty stuck behind Punjab and lacking expansion opportunities. With Zaire taking over Arabia that's another one gone. Zanzibar is still around of course, and Lesotho might be possible at a stretch... The other alternative is a coalition war. They can team up with Nigeria against Zaire, Uzbekistan against Punjab, Kulin against Malacca.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 40
  scene_title: "Vandals"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene40.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>Man I don’t really like this civ, but man this part hurt. So the rest of the world caught on to the Vandals stock market shenanigans, and kicked them out of global trade and now the Vandals are actually in the red. Granted they still have tons of money in the bank, enough to last a thousand turns mind you, but the AI isn’t exactly known to try and fix their economy when it’s in the shitter, and this is the drunken barbarian we are talking about. Not to mention that Marajoara has kicked their ass in the Caribbean and the only thing that is keeping their North American colonies from getting floored is that the impenetrable wall of Rio Grande is distracting Marajoara. Adding on to all of this, the Vandals’ one continental neighbor just so happens to be the scariest civ in the game, and a 1v1 would result in a slaughter.</p>"
- scene_number: 41
  scene_title: "Kulin"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene41.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Most people are probably pretty bored with Kulin. However, I find them fascinating because I have no idea how to rank them. What do you do when a statistical monster has a continent to themselves but nothing to do with it? There’s always another Australia in the CBR and I’m always a little bit curious if they’re finally gonna break the mold and make landfall. I’m always a little bit expectant that we’ll be putting them in the top five the very next part, but also 85% certain they’re gonna continue to look flashy and do nothing.</p><p></p><p>This CBRX, I’ve been hiding behind an excuse. “Oh well, Malacca would pretty easily trounce them in a war, so it doesn’t matter.” That worked for a while, but that’s starting to be more of an open question. Kulin decided to explode militarily this part, and all their stats are either closely trailing or above Malacca’s. It’s not a done deal if we get a Malacca VS Kulin part two. Plus, Endgame continues to be a looming threat in the background, and who knows what Kulin and Malacca are gonna look like then? Thus, I remain baffled. We shall have to wait and see.</p>"
- scene_number: 42
  scene_title: "Punjab"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene42.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>Punjab has three times the military might of Chola, a slight productive edge, eight more techs, and a way higher effective science. I hope they realize this at some point.</p>"
- scene_number: 43
  scene_title: "USSR"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene43.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy:</p><p></p><p>Stalin spent this part assembling the largest nuclear weapons stockpile in the entire world. In only 32 turns since discovering nuclear fission, he already has 43 of them, about twice as many as everyone else. He has been so focused on them that he has delegated the role of ground forces to some Uzbek peacekeepers. This is certainly going to be a big deterrent to anyone (such as the Uzbek peacekeepers) getting any funny ideas, but it's less good for actually conquering. Perm, Kosovo and Finland are all free for the taking if the USSR would try it. They just need to actually do it.</p>"
- scene_number: 44
  scene_title: "Germany"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene44.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>The war with two Sicilies has stalled out and devolved into a flip fest over Palermo (currently sitting at 37 flips). This is 1 city further into Italy than the flipfest of Gjakove (currently sitting at 62 flips) but is still extremely expensive in terms of resources. Fortunately, resources are never something Germany has to worry about since they just get a bunch for free but all the same, losing so much military can't be good for morale. This part they actually lost ground to 2 Sicilies (the colony of Hermoupolis), though a bunch of Sicilian cities are now in the black thanks to German air superiority. Unfortunately, Germany has opted for marines instead of paratroopers so will continue to struggle to actually get units in position to capture them.</p>"
- scene_number: 45
  scene_title: "Zaire"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene45.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>This part, Zaire decided to copy Nigeria's strategy of finishing rationalism, popping a bunch of great scientists and beelining particle physics with them. Zaire are now following Nigeria's lead in teching towards rockery and satellites. Is there nothing that Zaire won't copy off Nigeria? This is starting to get a bit silly. This part Zaire also managed to take over Arabia from the Ptolemies and are starting work on Kurdistan. What I'd like to see from them is a conquest of Lesotho, preferably doing as much damage as possible BEFORE Lesotho unlock nukes in a few turns and start building up an arsenal. The reason for this is that otherwise Lesotho will always be a threat moving forwards and it would really be best to neutralise it before it collects too many nukes. Sadly I don't see Nigeria declaring war on Lesotho and if Zaire's behavioural patterns continue (which they have no good reason to I might add; the AI does these things almost entirely at random), then Zaire won't attack unless Nigeria does so first.</p>"
- scene_number: 46
  scene_title: "Rio Grande"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene46.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>In light of their use of performance enhancing glitches actually making a meaningful difference, I continue my “actual review” boycott against Rio Grande.</p>"
- scene_number: 47
  scene_title: "The Chukchi"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene47.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax: The Chukchi slip a bit this week, largely due to being leapfrogged by a couple of civs with a little more momentum. Their tech count is also starting to fall behind a tad, but their production is still the regional leader, and only a tiny shade behind Malacca. They’ve a few episodes of relative inaction to thank - they’ve not stopped conquering, but they’ve all been small fries like Hawaii, and now the one-city rump of Yuan, which should fall near-instantly next episode. In order to mount another push on the top spot, they should turn their sights to a juicier target; both Northern Yuan and Taiping would be relatively simple conquests, especially once they start building paratroopers.</p>"
- scene_number: 48
  scene_title: "Uzbekistan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene48.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p></p><p>The Uzbeks are back in the top 5 this week, continuing their vicious streak. This time around their target is Bhutan, specifically the city of Wangdue. It's likely that they'll take the city and hold it, but whether or not they can take any more is unlikely. The mountains protect the rest of Bhutan from Uzbekistan, but Karimov does have paratroopers, which could lead to more conquests by Uzbekistan.</p>"
- scene_number: 49
  scene_title: "Marajoara"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene49.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>Welp I was very wrong about Marajoara needing to slow down. Marajoara has successfully wiped through the Caribbean with relative ease, and taking parts of Tahiti in the process. At risk of sounding like I’m crying wolf however, this might be the time where Marajoara might reach a literal wall in the form of Rio Grande, due to Rio Grande's unstoppable defense and the Vandals finally having modern naval tech. There is still a bit of wiggle room for the South American empire to continue its blood thirsty ways, but right now they might have to be put on hold. But hey, I've been wrong for the past several parts, so just do what you're comfortable with Marajoara.</p>"
- scene_number: 50
  scene_title: "Malacca"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene50.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rosay</p><p></p><p>Malacca continues to sit comfortably at second place amongst the power rankers for one simple reason: competition. Now don’t get me wrong science is a factor too, but the simple fact is that Nigeria would be able to tank its neighbors while Malacca would probably fall. The common consensus is that Malacca has three neighbors to worry about, Chola, Chukchi, and Kulin, (maybe Rio Grande but lets ignore them for a second). These three civs alone block all Malaccan expansion and it would take a hefty amount of warmonger penalties to push through them, possibly pissing off the other two. Now, I'm not saying Malacca is doomed, far from it, but it would take a hefty amount of effort to break through. Nigeria on the other hand only has to worry about two of its neighbors: the Vandals and Zaire. The former of which is kind of in free fall. Even if Zaire proves too hard to push down Nigeria can just say “screw it, i’m going to the Middle East or Europe” Malacca can however counteract this however, by taking just enough of Chola to gain better access to the Indian ocean and have a passive threat against Nigeria, without taking too much to piss off Kulin.</p>"
- scene_number: 51
  scene_title: "Nigeria"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr15-scene51.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p></p><p>With unanimous consent from the PRs, Awolowo keeps his crown as the top spot this week. While they might not have done much this week, only taking an island city, looking at the stats, it's easy to see why they are on top. Coming off of a war, Nigeria has armies and production in the top 3s, with its main continent rivals trailing behind it. But most importantly is tech. With a whopping 85 tech, Awolowo may be the first civ to reach the Future era. And with the tech advantage coupled with his strong stats, Nigeria will become a big contender to deal with.</p>"
---
