---
title: "Season 2 Power Rankings: Episode 0"
narrated_by: "PowerRankers"
description: ""
release_date: September 30, 2020
audio_narration: 
fullvideo: 
edition: S2
date: 2020-09-30T00:00:00.000Z
image: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene01.jpg
prcast: 
scenes:
- scene_number: 01
  scene_title: "Jamaica"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene01.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg</p><p></p><p>In a nearly unanimous last place, we have the wonderful hippy island nation of Jamaica. While everyone loves Jamaica and Jamaicans, their role in the battle royale is comparable to Rue in the Hunger Games. Beloved, yes, but also certain to die. Jamaica likes to found two cities and then call it a day; five cities would be a significant victory. With several more expansive and aggressive civs like Gran Colombia and Rio Grande nearby, Marcus Garvey could quickly discover that the plant is not mightier than the sword. However, just like Rue, the certainty of Jamaica’s demise does not mean they’ll necessarily die first. It’s just, out of all the civs we know will probably die early, Jamaica tops the list.</p>"
- scene_number: 02
  scene_title: "Hawaii"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene02.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg</p><p></p><p>In second to last place we have another island civ, this time Hawaii. While one might think Hawaii is safe—after all, they lasted quite a long time in Mk. 2—this time, things are different. The Pacific Ocean is smaller than it was last time Hawaii appeared in the battle royale, and because Lili’uokalani doesn’t have the ability to embark over ocean tiles immediately, the Hawaiian Islands have been connected by shallow water to both Japan and California. While this could boost Hawaii by giving them more lands into which to expand, this accessibility is more likely to backfire. Japan and Tongva will quickly block off both ends of the shallow water connection, rendering that access fairly irrelevant. Furthermore, Japan is fairly strong this game (as it was in season 1), and a peaceful Hawaii sitting ripe for the taking might prove too much for Tanaka Kakuei to resist.</p>"
- scene_number: 03
  scene_title: "Vandals"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene03.jpg
  narration: "<p>Jmangelo</p><p>You would think that our favourite felons from Tunisia would score higher on this list. Not just because of their real life history and culture, but also because of their militaristic uniques and mobile UA that applies throughout the whole game. Sadly, many at times forget just how drunk the Vandals AI is. Not just that, but being on the coast of the Mediterranean with a navally dominant civilization like Two Sicilies creates a growing concern for how well this really bumbly civilization can actually do. Not to mention most of the land available to them is plains and desert. The Vandals can stumble their way into a victory here and there, and they're not the worst civilization on this list. Far from it. But the civilization is so insanely inconsistent with its successes and so unaware of its own surroundings at times that most rankers find that the Vandals chances are quite poor, with some ranking them as low as last. Though there is some optimism in the PR room, with one ranker ranking them 32nd.Does this writer think success is impossible for the Vandals? Not necessarily. But an all out victory? I'd probably quit my job if that happened.</p>"
- scene_number: 04
  scene_title: "VOC"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene04.jpg
  narration: "<p>Shaggy</p><p></p><p>I was excited when VOC was announced as the voting winner for their region because it’s such a weird civ to think of as a “civ” from a flavor/historical point-of-view. Then I got into analyzing how they’ll fare in the battle royale format and… well you see how early this writeup is in the PRs. Unfortunately for VOC, they suffer from a double whammy of having poor uniques that really just influence gold and happiness (two of the least valuable resources in the CBR) and starting in a position in Asia that doesn’t leave them with much space to grow and surrounded by much more formidable civs. Sure, they have a nice frigate replacement for a UU, but many of the PRs are doubtful we’ll end up seeing it. Jan Coen will need to pull some sort of Dutch Miracle out of his ass to survive the Asian Thunderdome. Also, given how I’ve said all of this, I’m sure they’ll get eliminated by an Australian civ just to mess with me.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 05
  scene_title: "Tuareg"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene05.jpg
  narration: "<p>Jmangelo</p><p></p><p>The Blue Men of the Desert are not in the best of situations, as their TSL is smack dab in the middle of the Sahara. Normally, a desert game is not impossible (especially if the Anangu are anything to go by); however, being in the middle of the largest desert in the game with a huge gap between the capital and the coast, as well as a real danger with settling a potentially crowded Mediterranean Sea, puts the Tuareg in a sticky situation. Survival for the Tuareg hinges on capitalizing on the desert with its defensive bonuses and unit promotions for being in the desert; however, their success also hinges on whether they can break out of the desert without taking too many critical losses. The PR team gave them such a low spot on the rankings with considerable controversiality in mind because there is no telling if this civilization will be the Sahara's Kuikuro or the next Songhai... Neither emulate any great hopes for our Boys in Blue (Cop memes?).</p>"
- scene_number: 06
  scene_title: "Tahiti"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene06.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p>Also rounding out Oceania, we have Tahiti. Their UA allows their settlers to cross great distances and end up on a random coastline on the opposite side of the Pacific. While this will undoubtedly lead to bordergore and a far reaching empire, it will also lead to a scattered empire. With cities divided amongst Asia, Oceania, and North American coastlines, Purea will have dozens of civs wanting her land. She'll also need to make a strong core in Oceania, something that her UA could prevent. All in all, her saving grace might be the fact that her Pacific starting point makes it hard for many a civ to fully remove her. She might not be strong, but she could last long.</p>"
- scene_number: 07
  scene_title: "Jerusalem"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene07.jpg
  narration: "<p>Doom</p><p>Let's face it, things don't look good for the crusaders. The middle East is a less than enviable start position although the rest of their neighbours are also not looking particularly good (Ptolemies, Hejaz) with the notable exception of Kurdistan. Even between these other civs Jerusalem is in the uniquely terrible spot of starting in the middle, with even less arable land available to them than Hejaz. Their best (only?) chance seems to be an early rush to kill or cripple a neighbour (preferably Kurdistan) before they're totally outpaced by the other civs As for UCs, they're largely up to the AI in this case as their choice of crusading order in each city determines the promotions for their other UCs While they have no faith boosts, all the extra religions should give them a chance to found something and since cities are sure to be densely packed in the Middle East, they should get ample opportunity to use their combat boost from fighting near cities that follow their religion which could help an early game rush</p>"
- scene_number: 08
  scene_title: "Teutonic Order"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene08.jpg
  narration: "<p>Gragg</p><p></p><p>Everyone’s favorite crusaders have entered the arena! For those Age of Empire fans out there, you’ll recognize them anywhere. Of course, they’re a different animal here in civ. The Teutons have a slew of faith and domination bonuses which could see some use with religion’s expanded role in CBRX2. Still, their start location is pretty bad and their uniques come too late to save them from early aggression. With several probable powers nearby that is enough to push the order down into the 50’s.</p>"
- scene_number: 09
  scene_title: "Iceland"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene09.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg</p><p></p><p>Many of you remember Iceland from Mk.2, where they beat the odds to conquer the British Isles, France, and a considerable portion of the Mediterranean. We would advise against assuming that this could happen again. This isn’t your badass medieval Viking Iceland: no, this is modern Iceland, home of Game of Thrones montage footage rather than sagas of blood and conquest. Kristjan Eldjarn’s unique ability is based on the Cod Wars, an extremely bloody series of disputes between Iceland and the UK over fishing rights in which, er.... actually, scratch that, they weren’t bloody at all. In fact, only one person died, and it was an accident. Nevertheless, Iceland won. But there are other more important points for the CBR too. First off, there’s only one civ in the British Isles, so Iceland won’t be facing two relatively weak and divided states like it did in MK. 2. Furthermore, Greenland is now smaller and worse, providing less of a base for expansion. Taken together, all these factors suggest that Iceland is probably not going to be a global superpower this time around.</p>"
- scene_number: 10
  scene_title: "Dene"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene10.jpg
  narration: "<p>Gragg</p><p></p><p>In any other season of CBR, Dene would be scraping the very bottom of the barrel of rankings. The reason is that their uniques are largely built around religion and great people, which doesn’t fare well in this format. However, with the addition of more religion slots, Dene is scraping the top of the bottom of the barrel. North America won’t be a walk in the park this season either, as Neutrals, Mississippi, and Rio Grande all look to be powers. Expectations are low so there is plenty of room for Dene to surprise us.</p>"
- scene_number: 11
  scene_title: "Georgia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene11.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>Georgia is a civ with a defensive bias, a mountain start, a UA that requires the AI to know how the game works to do anything, and most problematically, also boosts the Move Points of their units thus guaranteeing that the AI will get tripped up on itself if it accidentally procs it. The AI does not handle randomly being able to zoom well. But all the same, they have a decent defensive set up and starting area and are well-equipped to become just be an enormous pain-in-the-ass thornbush in the middle of the Caucasus with all the Citadels that they will have. Being a pain-in-the-ass doesn’t win you games, but it might elevate their final ranking past their abysmal 51 and into something more to the tune of a-still-unimpressive 41, especially given how relatively quiet their region is. That’s really the best we can hope for out of Georgia, that they manage to not horribly screw up and survive far longer than they have any right to.</p>"
- scene_number: 12
  scene_title: "New Netherlands"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene12.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Some civs are ranked low because they have a small chance to be amazing, but are more likely to crash and burn. Others like New Netherlands are ranked low because they have a 95% of just being meh. New Netherlands is stuck on the east coast of North America with very little room to expand, and just a stone’s throw away from two of the giants on the continent: the Neutral Nation, and the Mississippi. It’s unlikely they’ll die straight away. They have plenty of islands near them that they can make into escape plans off the continent, but it would take a miracle for them to get past the coast, and even then, I don’t think they could parlay that into a win. The highest rank someone gave them is 25th. I would be astonished if they even got that far.</p><p></p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 13
  scene_title: "Malacca"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene13.jpg
  narration: "<p>Gragg</p><p></p><p>The thing you need to understand about Malacca and VOC is that they’re not playing the game with the same goal as everyone else. Others have dreams of conquest and domination. Malacca intends to amass such wealth and influence that they can pay Blue Cassette and be crowned the victors. At least I hope that’s they’re strategy, cause a trading based civ in the South Asia/Oceania theatre ain’t gunna win no domination victory. But hey, if you were a Venice/cuccs/Haiti fan, this is your S2 civ.</p>"
- scene_number: 14
  scene_title: "Bhutan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene14.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p></p><p>The pros of being a turtley Himalayan civ is that you survive for a really long time. The cons are that simply surviving doesn't win you the game. And Bhutan certainly is turtley, with the Dzong, a variant of the fort that gets stronger next to mountains. Though these won't work if Bhutan gets attacked, not from the mountains, but from the relatively flat Indian subcontinent. Punjab is therefore the biggest threat, though if Bhutan do well, Punjab and Chola would turn into good expansion opportunities for the exact same reason. I would also like to mention that Bhutan has the capability of being the most hated civ in the game. How? Well, their unique archer, the Dapon, never goes obsolete AND can move immediately. This makes it perfect for spamming out in ridiculously large numbers, even well into the lategame. This means that Bhutan has a very easy time carpeting every civ on the map with really shitty peacekeepers, choking out any potential wars and stalling the entire cylinder to a standstill. And with their turtley powers of mountains, they’ll have a lot of time to enact the spam.</p>"
- scene_number: 15
  scene_title: "Tongva"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene15.jpg
  narration: "<p>Jmangelo</p><p>The Tongva peoples in a culture game would likely do very well, with bonuses to coastal cities that cannot easily be ignored for the actual domination portion of the game. Having a Settler with actual Combat Strength is not negligible, especially with its early sailing capabilities. They could certainly capitalize on the coast; however, Culture doesn't win EVERY Battle Royale.... Unless your civilization name is Brazil. The main point here is that the Tongva have a lot of room and base yields but have no strengths that would indicate an all out victory, nor do they have many opponents to fight that they could likely win against. Tongva do well in terms of how fast their cities can grow if they play wide, but their military is certainly lacking and they have to get some pretty decent bias rolls to stand a chance, as well as a great advantage in bias rolls for neighbours to succeed.</p>"
- scene_number: 16
  scene_title: "Wales"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene16.jpg
  narration: "<p>Vihreaa</p><p></p><p>WALES! Let this be a tale of how the great nation of Wales will go on to stage the biggest comeback in CBR history, winning the game whilst only starting in the 46th position. </p><p>In all reality though, I believe that Wales could be a fascinating civ to watch during this iteration of the Royale. With no other civs to compete against in the British Isles, Wales has a unique advantage compared the other civs in the British Isles compared to past royale iterations. Though perhaps not ranked the highest, from knowledge from test games, Wales has proven to entertain, with them settling all of West Africa in one test game. With any luck, we will be able to see a Wales as entertaining as that one in the CBRX2.</p>"
- scene_number: 17
  scene_title: "Olmecs"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene17.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rose</p><p>Oh yeah the big head boys have been selected, and i couldn't be happier. This is due to the fact that dem heads have meme potential, and they have one hype as all hell unique ability, the Venus Cycle. The Venus cycle happens every 15(?) or so turns which increases the rate of earning great people for said turn, while also giving extra tourism for techs that their neighbors have not quite reached yet. While sure this is not exactly game changing or anything this is a really cool piece of flavor, and I love civs that get scheduled buffs based on the turn (like the maya). There is also the Konuks'wu which increases science, which mind you plays into their tourism game, while also gaining 10% combat bonus. The combat bonus isn't a huge game changer, but it can get the Olmecs out of a hairy situation if need be, and more science per kill especially in the early game is a huge boost. There is also one huge problem plaguing the civ, and that of course is their starting position isn't exactly optimal. Sure you got Jamaica as an easy kill but rio grande, mississippi, gran colombia, and even tongva to a lesser extent have all been shown to be stronger foes, by a long shot. However we've seen weirder shit happen, so i can carry hope that the Olmecs can push their way to victory.</p>"
- scene_number: 18
  scene_title: "Chukchi"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene18.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>I am more optimistic for the Chukchi than is probably warranted. I mean, they’re located in the iciest part of siberia . They’re next to two superpower civs, Manchu, and Northern Yuan. They don’t have a ton of space to expand, and the space they do have is split between the end of Asia, and the beginning of North America. I wouldn’t be surprised if they died quickly.</p><p></p><p>But I don’t know. Something about their position being far away enough to be too bothersome, rocky enough to be well fortified, and strategic enough that it’s not impossible for them to settle on either NA, or Siberia leads me to think they have some prospects. Not to mention their Unique Unit is really good. Basically being a composite Bowman with bonuses on the icy terrain, and their unique ability to steal tiles when their units promote has the potential to be very entertaining. Is it possible I look back on this in a month and cringe? Absolutely, but I’d say don’t completely count these frosty bois out.</p>"
- scene_number: 19
  scene_title: "Ptolemies"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene19.jpg
  narration: "<p>Jmangelo</p><p></p><p>The Ptolemies do not have the most difficult start, nor do they have situational uniques. Just about every civilization in the game 95% of the time will establish an embassy with another civilization, and Cleopatra will try to build tall in her capital with whatever yield she will receive from other civilizations. Expect that yield to be food. Though the bonus will be slim pickings to start, it can really start to snowball depending on how big the civilizations become; however, that partially hinges on the success of other civilizations rather than her own. The Ptolemies have an added issue of being, like their many counterparts over the many Battle Royales, of not being on the coast of the Mediterranean, meaning that they will not necessarily capitalize on the naval improvements and naval game; however, with a much more powerful Two Sicilies on the sea, this may not be a bad thing entirely. The Ptolemies in the mind of many of the Power Rankers will likely be a middle power at best, with a poor AI record and Cleopatra's far away potential victims gives her a spot behind the middle of the pack.</p>"
- scene_number: 20
  scene_title: "Zanzibar"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene20.jpg
  narration: "<p>Vihreaa</p><p></p><p>Zanzibar finds themselves in a somewhat unique position starting in this battle royale. Starting on a one tile island, the odds for Zanzibar becoming at best a regional power are a bit of a long shot. They don’t have the same fortunes as Madagascar did, but this gives them the double-edged sword of both having the chance to establish an empire on the mainland, but not having a core to retreat to if you lose that mainland empire. Many power rankers have made predictions that Zanzibar will be taken out early by Somalia, but that is yet to be seen in the official BR. Whichever way it goes, I’ll be content as long as we get an entertaining game.</p>"
- scene_number: 21
  scene_title: "Hejaz"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene21.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg</p><p></p><p>No civ starting in the Arabian peninsula has ever done well, and while that could change any time, I wouldn’t bet on Hejaz being the one to do it. In real life, Hejaz is most famous for rebelling against the Ottomans to secure independence (the events depicted in Lawrence of Arabia) and then getting conquered by Nejd 9 years later to form Saudi Arabia. While CBRX Hejaz will be independent for considerably more than nine years, existing is about as much as I expect them to do. Despite being surrounded by mountains and deserts, Hejaz doesn’t have any abilities that will improve these terrain types, and their unique ability rewards declarations of friendship. If I had to bet on a Middle Eastern civ, I’d pick the Kurds.</p>"
- scene_number: 22
  scene_title: "Namibia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene22.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>I really hope Namibia does something. Their unique ability grants faith whenever units die in their borders which will give Namibia an exorbitant amount of faith later on. Thanks to the changes made to religion this time around, I would be tickled pink if Namibia gets to use their religion to just have a bananas effect on the game: declaring tons of wars, and starting coalitions against civs all across the cylinder. It’d be a blast.</p><p></p><p>Unfortunately, it’s more likely that since they’re stuck on the bottom of Africa, Lesotho or Zaire cripples them fairly quickly and they limp along on the edge of the continent long after everyone stopped caring about them. That’s my prediction, but I want it to be wrong!</p>"
- scene_number: 23
  scene_title: "Somalia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene23.jpg
  narration: "<p>LonelyRS</p><p>The Somali Democratic Republic, in our world, rose to power via an assassination and a coup, built itself around scientific socialism, narrowly survived another coup, then collapsed into anarchy, all in the span of 21 years. The Somali Democratic Republic, in this world, will probably last much longer. It’s unlikely, however, that they’ll be any more interesting.</p><p></p><p>Somalia figures to be the best of the East African civs, in the same way an apple grown in December might claim superiority over one grown in January, and their position isn’t entirely undeserved, given their bonuses to naval combat and start position that should leave them free of the Euro-South African pincer attack that so often seems to burst the continent like a grape. But they’re the best only by a matter of degrees: Zanzibar takes their capital just as often as they take Zanzibar’s, and Somalia, notably, doesn’t have a convenient nearby island to flee to in case the worst happens. Somalia might just stick around for a while; they aren’t exactly the most appealing target, after all, and they don’t figure to start on the doorstep of any future superpowers. Still, though, if you find yourself blanking on what exactly was in East Africa before Zaire and Lesotho carved up the region, know that nobody’s going to hold it against you.</p>"
- scene_number: 24
  scene_title: "Laos"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene24.jpg
  narration: "<p>Gragg</p><p></p><p>Some civs develop rivalries after 100s of turns and dozens of wars. Other civs are born with rivalries. Laos is the latter. Vietnam and Laos will more than likely be at each other's throats from the very beginning. Without alteration they would have started a mere tile or two away, though they have been moved slightly further away. Laos has some mild religion buffs to help them out, but their war elephants are going to be their biggest boost. They are spawned from the great general replacement, making them quite easy to produce in this battle royale. We’ll just have to see if Laos even gets to that point.</p>"
- scene_number: 25
  scene_title: "Taiping"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene25.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p>Hong Xiuquan and his Heavenly Kingdom are likely to be a key player in the religious aspect of this season. With a thirst for religion (which makes sense when your leader says Jesus is his older brother, look it up), a heavy penchant for militarism, and bonuses that make military conquests and pillaging gain faith, an early aggressive move could lead to Taiping the shining beacon of a new religion.  However, the Heavenly Kingdom has one large thing standing in its way: Hong Xiuquan. With notoriously bad AI (which makes sense when your leader says Jesus is his older brother, look it up), early military conquests could very quickly lead to failure. And with Vietnam and Regular Yuan for neighbors, any misstep could lead to elimination.</p>"
- scene_number: 26
  scene_title: "Finland"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene26.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>Finland’s got an alright enough start that gives them alright defensive geography, a weirdly low amount of forests for their UU, and a Russia that should be distracted from further east for a while. Don’t expect a repeat of Exclavia from a fun-to-play janky culture civ, but they might still pull off some fun stuff over the course of the game. Hey, why does it feel like I’m forgetting somethin- TO THE SKIES SEE CAROLUS RISE.</p><p></p><p>Ah. That. That’s a problem. That’s a… pretty big problem. Sweden is a favorite in Europe, and has a solid track record for wrecking things. When we say don’t expect a repeat of Exclavia, I mean that in the sense that they might actually die before they get the chance to repeat that. While the Hell Geography of the peninsula might help protect Finland, it still puts them as the only civ Sweden has direct land access to, and that’s kinda dangerous. In another BR, Finland could probably just sit tight and survive for far longer than it has any right to, but CBRX2 has a much more active Europe than we usually see. Finland will have to be an active force in its own fate- but Mannerheim ain’t Kekkonen, and I don’t think he has the guts to make Exclavia happen once more.</p>"
- scene_number: 27
  scene_title: "Paraguay"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene27.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax</p><p></p><p>If you want to be a CBRX superpower, here’s a couple pieces of advice. One: try not to start right in the middle of a continent, surrounded by more powerful civs. And two: try not to start right in the middle of open plains, where the only natural defences are a couple of rivers.</p><p></p><p>Lopez’s Paraguay fails on both these counts. With the Mapuche, Peru-Bolivia and Palmares for neighbours, it’s not hard to see Paraguay following in its real life historical footsteps, partitioned between its neighbours. But the land is rich, and after Uruguay’s supremacy last game you’d be a fool to count Paraguay out right out of the gates. Their unique cavalry, the Aca Vera, thrives on being surrounded, receiving combat strength for every adjacent enemy unit while ignoring the ZoC. If they can survive that long, they could certainly turn the continent on its head, defeating nations that are stronger on paper - just as Lopez tried to do himself. Though again, if we’re taking historical precedent into account... well, maybe not a civ to put money on.</p>"
- scene_number: 28
  scene_title: "Anangu"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene28.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p>The Anangu are a civ based around natural wonders, and in particular Uluru, which they start next to. Their unique shrine, the Nyintiringkupai, gets 1 culture and faith per natural wonder owned. Together with Uluru, this means they will probably get a religion fairly quickly. Another very potentially powerful thing is their unique scout, the Wamala, which spawns a FREE SETTLER upon discovering a natural wonder. A free settler early is absolutely huge if they can get it. Perhaps from the great barrier reef? A natural wonder which actually counts as several next to each other and therefore means SEVERAL FREE SETTLERS? OK there is just one problem, which is that I can't find the Great Barrier Reef on the map and I don't know if it's even in the game. Maybe it was removed for being too overpowered with the Anangu? The Anangu's main problem in the game is the Kulin, who also start in Australia but crucially have a far better start (ie: not in the middle of the outback). If they do manage to avoid death by Kulin, then the Anangu probably have an easy run to the top 10 (as the Australian civ always has in every CBR) though will, as always, have difficulty expanding to the mainland.</p>"
- scene_number: 29
  scene_title: "Peru-Bolivia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene29.jpg
  narration: "<p>LonelyRS</p><p>The trouble with residing in a crucible of superpowers is that, if you weren’t born underneath a golden banner held aloft by trumpeting angels who promised you a future of artificial glory and simulated conquest, your outlook ends up being pretty grim. See: Peru-Bolivia. A good civ, in every estimation, with a lovely pair of uniques in its Harbor replacement and leader ability which focus on internal growth and naval conquest, supplemented by a Gatling Gun replacement which ought to turn the nation’s disadvantageous start position into a legitimate strength.</p><p></p><p>So, why are they in the bottom half? Simple: while they may be a great nation for their position, they’re surrounded by rivals with legitimate superpower upside. Peru-Bolivia never collapses, yes, but they never quite manage to emerge as the heavyweight in their region either. Their ceiling is brushing the edge of the top ten and hoping for a breakthrough that never quite seems to come. In another region, that might just be enough for them, but in one anchored by Gran Colombia and the Mapuche? That’s not going to cut it. Peru-Bolivia’s a very good civ, one which could definitely find itself sticking around to the very end of the game. But true greatness always seems to elude them. And barring a downright miraculous turn of events, that outlook doesn’t look like it will change any time soon.</p>"
- scene_number: 30
  scene_title: "Two Sicilies"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene30.jpg
  narration: "<p>Shaggy</p><p></p><p>Coming in with a whopping deviation that’s pushing 17 is Two Sicilies at rank 32. With some rankers putting them as high as top 3 and as low as bottom 5, there is a wide range of opinions on this civ’s potential among the PRs. The Italian peninsula is definitely not an enviable starting position, especially given how busy the Mediterranean looks to be this season, and Europe itself looks incredibly competitive as a region. That being said, Two Sicilies seems to have the bonuses to take advantage of their start better than most with their start. Their UA automatically upgrades their existing naval units when a tech is researched that unlocks a new naval unit and gives the civ a free naval unit on the construction of each cargo ship. Personally, I think this UA is fascinating given the layout of Europe. The auto-upgrade mechanic appears to be mostly a blessing with a bit of a curse associated with it. Yes, it’s amazing to not have to worry about the treasury when unlocking new ships, and yes, we’ve definitely seen civs stagnate and fail due to neglecting to upgrade their units and for that Two Sicilies will benefit if they have any semblance of a good science game, but my worry is with regard to resources. Italy is not the best land and the Mediterranean is not the best sea to rely heavily on strategic resources. As such, I can easily see a scenario where Two Sicilies’ UA kicks in when they research a tech but without the strategic resource stockpile to support the new units and, though they do have a fresh navy of newly upgraded units, their navy will be heavily penalized in combat for not having the requisite strategic resources. A similar situation could happen with their gold income if the upkeep cost of the newly upgraded ships outweighs their surplus gold income, though this scenario won’t have such a direct impact on the ships’ ability in war. Naturally, both of these problems scale: the larger the navy, the larger the necessity to maintain strategic and economic resources to maintain that navy and the harsher the penalties for failing to do so. Overall though, this UA is fantastic and sets up Two Sicilies to be a major Mediterranean power if not THE major Mediterranean power. Two Sicilies also benefits from having the Vandals as an early target, which would make having an African backup plan all the easier. I put Two Sicilies in the top 10 in my rankings as I think that Africa is weak enough that Two Sicilies could effectively colonize or conquer much of the Mediterranean coast and use that as a more easily defendable base from which to try to expand up into Europe. This theory is helped by the fact that Europe is very competitive and as such Two Sicilies will probably go the way of S1 Venice and not really be bullied much so long as they keep their nose out of Central Europe during the early game.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 31
  scene_title: "Kosovo"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene31.jpg
  narration: "<p>Doom</p><p>Kosovo may not have much space but they look to make up for it with their explosive UA that brings any civ they have a declaration of friendship with into any war declared by Kosovo. This is sure to create some interesting conflicts although Kosovo themselves may not benefit that much from it. With both Germany and Sweden to the north and the Two Sicilies likely to maintain a stranglehold on the Mediterranean at least until midgame, Kosovo don't have an easy path to victory Even if Germany roll badly and become the next Czech republic then Kosovo will still have to deal with the Russian civs and Sweden Anatolia is another option but it's a tough chokepoint for the AI to navigate Kosovo's other UCs are largely defensive or late game and so may not be useful. In conclusion, while set to be a fun contender, it's hard to see a path to victory for Kosovo</p>"
- scene_number: 32
  scene_title: "Palmares"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene32.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax</p><p></p><p>First things first, it’s great to see Palmares here. This is a beautiful PorkBean mod, the first of his to feature in the CBR alongside Taiping, with a phenomenal leader screen courtesy of our godfather TPangolin. And Palmares is a great civ to feature, a small nation of runaway slaves in Brazil. On the face of it, they look pretty handy too - they can capture all civilian units, and any such units they control passively damage nearby enemies. Not only that, but their UI allows their armies to capture any enemy units at all - and it can be built outside of their territory.</p><p></p><p>So what are they doing mid table, then? Well, South America is going to be a tough continent this time round, with solid competitors like the Mapuche and Gran Colombia just around the corner. We’ve also seen civs get trapped by the Amazon rainforest before - sure, it makes defending easy, but it likewise makes expansion a lot tricker too. We could see them getting stuck at a rather small size while the rest of the continent consolidated into one power. But with uniques that fancy, we can’t count them out just yet - after all, central South America has been the home of not one but two CBR superpowers, and Palmares could yet find themselves the successors to that title.</p>"
- scene_number: 33
  scene_title: "Yuan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene33.jpg
  narration: "<p>Vihreaa</p><p></p><p>In this iteration of the Civ Battle Royale, Yuan has metaphorically drawn the short end of the stick. Though 29th is by no means bad, in the top half actually, they are undeniably sidelined by Northern Yuan, which have taken almost all of the Yuan-related attention. Starting in China, we have seen Chinese civs have stellar games, and not so stellar games; see Qin and Qing. Regardless of this, we can’t count Yuan out yet. With the right settles and rolls for military, Yuan could turn out to be a strong competitor in Eastern Asia.</p>"
- scene_number: 34
  scene_title: "Gauls"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene34.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p>The Gauls are a civ based around mining, getting free mining resources and bonus gold and culture from mines. They also have a better swordsman. Unfortunately, the Gauls are a little cramped for space, sandwiched between Spain and Germany (the latter of which look to be a major threat). Any of Wales's potential mainland ambitions will also probably pass through the Gauls. The Gauls do have more land than 2 Sicilies, but 2 Sicilies have the alps to protect them, so are not that good a target. The best path to victory is hope that Spain chokes and capitalise on that to reduce the number of fronts to fight on.</p>"
- scene_number: 35
  scene_title: "Vietnam"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene35.jpg
  narration: "<p>Shaggy</p><p></p><p>Ho Chi Minh leads Vietnam in the battle royale this season. Taking the role of an inland southeast Asian civ works just fine for them given their UA. Sapping production from units on roads allows Vietnam to use their neighbors’ roads against them. As an added bonus, this also gives them Great General points, which gives Vietnam an interesting avenue to regional dominance. By sapping production and getting boosted GG points in wartime, Vietnam can snowball through an enemy’s lands by being able to resupply their units faster than their foe and with more Great Generals (probably). Their UU will help make their UA more snowbally with its bonuses to being near a GG allowing them to just be flat out more mobile in rough terrain and mountains. If Vietnam can withstand the slugfest that Asia will be this season, I expect them to make a big regional play come the midgame. Oh, and also they have a UB I guess, it’s pretty buns…</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 36
  scene_title: "Chola"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene36.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p>Chola are a civ with bonuses to city states and to fighting naval barbarians, two things that aren't going to come up in the CBRX2... Their third unique is the Thalai Thirvai, a great admiral replacement that is capable of fighting. Since great admirals are fairly hard to come by, this isn't going to be very relevant either; you can't spam great admirals. (the Chola in theory should have more great admiral points than regular civs but it is the ability that requires city states, and therefore doesn't work). So yeah - the Chola are basically a vanilla civ. They have 1 unique out of the 3 that everyone else has, and that 1 unique isn't that impactful. The Chola are likely going to be penned into the south of india by the larger Punjab. Though there is some hope of escape. Bhutan might be a doable conquest (though only up to the Himalayas - no further) . They might also be able to launch naval invasions on arabia or indonesia.</p>"
- scene_number: 37
  scene_title: "Nigeria"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene37.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>When I first ranked Nigeria, I had them at 57th, then some rankers said Nigeria could be a continent winner, so I moved them to 15th, then other rankers said that Nigeria were destined to die in the first few parts, and I screamed into a pillow. </p><p></p><p>Their unique ability, which gives Nigeria a boost to food and faith when a citizen is born, can help them expand super quick, and they have good AI, but they also have a terrible, awful, dreadful starting position. Nigeria could capitalize on weak neighbors like the Vandals and Burkina Faso and become a Songhai without the stagnation. Yay! Nigeria could also get stuck on the coast of Africa, never impact the game, and get devoured by neighbors like Zaire. Boo! Their ceiling is utter domination, their floor is super sonic irrelevance. 25th it is.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 38
  scene_title: "Burkino Faso"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene38.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p>Burkino Faso are a fairly average civ, based around trade routes. It could probably manage to expand northwards into the Tuaregs of the Sahara, but conquering the Sahara isn't that useful. The biggest threat will likely come from the larger and more fertile jungles to their southeast, whether it be Nigeria, Zaire or something even from further afield. One interesting thing is their unique marine, the Milice du People, is able to plant forests, meaning that for a short period of time, they will have Kuikuro-level defence. However, marines are only available for a short time - in the modern/atomic era.  Burkino Faso can still very easily die or be rumped before the modern era so this isn’t a big factor.</p>"
- scene_number: 39
  scene_title: "Marajora"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene39.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>Part 0 rankings are funny. The constant 10+ point deviations should tell you that for a lot of civs there’s a few different opinions on how each civ could play out. Marajora is a good example of this. </p><p></p><p>Scenario 1: Marajora as top dog in South America. If Paraguay implodes immediately by declaring war on all their neighbors, as many rankers suspect will be the case, then Marajora is in a great position to benefit from that. Marajora can then easily snowball from that advantage by attacking Gran Columbia or Palmares and become the top power on the continent.</p><p></p><p>Scenario 2: Marajora as mediocre filler civ: With Gran Columbia, and Palmares also being able to take advantage of a dissolving Paraguay, it’s just as likely for either of them to seize the initiative, and box in Marajora. There’s a good chance Marajora settles enough to survive, but never gets the opportunity to thrive.</p><p></p><p>Scenario 3: Marajora as delicious prey: If Paraguay doesn’t implode, and manages to actually survive long enough to get something going, that’s pretty bad for Marajora. Paraguay can be a force to be reckoned with if they survive and Marajora is a great target for their ire. That’s also not considering what happens if Gran Colombia, or Palmares jump in on a coalition. Marajora could dissolve so fast, we wouldn’t remember them a year from now.</p><p></p><p>So which of these should we say is Marajora’s fate? It’s very much up the air. Personally, I lean towards the later two scenarios, but it’s very dependent on the rest of the continent. We’ll have to wait and see if Marajora at 23rd is an underestimation of a great power, or an overestimation of a dud.</p><p></p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 40
  scene_title: "Chinook"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene40.jpg
  narration: "<p>Random Strategy</p><p>The Chinook are a civ based around work boats. They have a unique one, the Equai-ah, that also doubles as a combat unit, and have access to bonus fishing resources in the form of salmon and orcas. This means that, like the Haida before them, they can grow a tall powerful core. The issue is then translating this powerful core into a long-term empire. As a naval civ, conquering across the Pacific to Hawaii, Japan or the Chukchi is an option available from the renaissance onwards, though does rely on those civs being weak. Alternatively, since they are on the edge of North America, they can gain a lot from an early north american gangbang - IF they can get through the Rockies. But getting through the Rockies and crossing the Pacific are both difficult, so a likely scenario for the Chinook is them failing to expand at all past their starting region. Tongva is their best hope seeing as they can attack it via land and sea at the same time.</p>"
- scene_number: 41
  scene_title: "Japan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene41.jpg
  narration: "<p>Doom</p><p>Japan has always been an awkward TSL. Their mainland neighbours in China and Korea tend to settle quickly, forcing Japan to look northward. Unfortunately for Japan that means tundra and lots of it which isn't great for a burgeoning empire. While the Chukchi are expected to be a non-entity this game, the same cannot be said for the Manchu If the Manchu get a strong start than Kakuei may just never catch up The Japanese UCs are also not particularly suited to a domination game and the UB and UU arrive very late in the game. Their UA gives a production boost when tile improvements are completed near cities which could be helpful early game, especially as the AI starts with workers/work boats. Although it seems impossible to live up to the legacy of Shikoku if anyone can surprise us it's Kakuei</p>"
- scene_number: 42
  scene_title: "Kulin"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene42.jpg
  narration: "<p>Doom</p><p>Kulin just hit the top 20 in part 0, far lower than the expected top Australian civ in previous BRs So what's different this time? After all, there's not even a New Zealand to slow them down. To start with we have the Kulin themselves. Their UCs are almost entirely CS based and their AI has a pretty extensive and underwhelming track record in previous games. Australia's comparatively low finish in CBRX helped people realise that it's not the impenetrable fortress it was once thought to be and that merely defeating other Australian civs is no guarantee of global success That said, it's not all doom and gloom for Kulin. The defeat of the Anangu is all but assured since they start in the middle of a desert Their island neighbours are both far away and to be honest mostly just bad Ultimately, the chance of the Kulin establishing a foothold in Asia or an America is close to zero Once the Anangu are out of the way, I expect the Kulin to stagnate until they are finally killed off by a real Pacific naval power</p>"
- scene_number: 43
  scene_title: "TAT"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene43.jpg
  narration: "<p>Knot</p><p></p><p>These three tribes led by four bears are on one continent with eight other civs. There’s definitely not room to contain all this hot number action! Three Affiliated Tribes are a solid civ. They have a pretty good track record in previous AI games. They have decent settling and expansion opportunities in the Dene, the Chinook, and even New Netherlands if they’re feeling frisky. There’s nothing inherently wrong with them. It’s just that North America has some very strong contenders, and some of them are right next door. Just to put this in perspective, TAT is only the 4th best civ in North America. There’s three North America civs in the top 15! Sure, if some of the civs higher on this list stumble, Three Affiliated Tribes could pick up the baton and quickly rise through the ranks, but if NA is as strong as predicted, the continent could be minus four bears pretty soon.</p>"
- scene_number: 44
  scene_title: "Spain"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene44.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej</p><p>Carlos III has a hard job ahead of him, he has to fill the shoes that the Moors left behind with their stunning upset victory in S1.  And on paper, it looks like it *could* happen. With fairly weak neighbors and a solid set of Renaissance UU units, Carlos could carve a sizable empire out of Western Europe and Northwest Africa. But that won’t be a cakewalk. A forward settle by the Gauls could lead to a crippled Carlos. Two Sicilies could rule the waves of the Mediterranean could force them to be stuck in Europe. A Blitzkreig by Whilhelm could lead to Spain and Germany sharing a border long before Carlos is ready. And even if none of that happens, Spain will still have to reach the top to carry on the Iberian legacy of victory.</p>"
- scene_number: 45
  scene_title: "Kurdistan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene45.jpg
  narration: "<p>Gragg</p><p></p><p>When favorite civs were polled a few weeks ago, Kurdistan was a surprising leader (at least to me). Y’all will have to explain that one to me in the comments. The power ranker’s opinions on Kurdistan are decidedly above average but by no means a favorite to win. Their uniques are relevant but largely defensive. But hey, if you’re going to win you gotta not die first. Kurdistan should at least have that part down. There are no obvious frontrunners in the middle-east region where Kurdistan starts, so we could certainly see them become a regional power.</p>"
- scene_number: 46
  scene_title: "Great Perm"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene46.jpg
  narration: "<p>Cloudberg</p><p></p><p>Wait, you mean to tell me that Great Perm is a civ and not a hairdo? Well, that means I’ll need to analyze their position. In theory, Perm has a lot of land into which to expect, even more than the neighboring USSR. But this comes with a catch: damn near half that land is snow. This means that if Stephen wants to build up a good core, he might be forced into conflicts with neighbors earlier than one would think. And Perm’s record in this regard is... spotty. Perm has been known to do well on occasion, but equally often, Stephen founds three cities and then tries to colonize Mongolia, which, as one may expect, usually ends badly. Nevertheless, Great Perm makes the top 20 due to its place among the top 5 civs when ranked by most expansion room. </p>"
- scene_number: 47
  scene_title: "USSR"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene47.jpg
  narration: "<p>Shaggy</p><p></p><p>Greetings, comrades! Lenin leads the USSR into a bold and revolutionary Season 2. As with most of the part 0 rankings, there is some disagreement over USSR’s placement. Much of that comes from differences of opinion between PRs of how the competitive Europe will shake out, though most rankers seem to think that the USSR will at least be a regional power, if not the eventual winner of Europe. Their infrastructure will be strong given their UA and mid-game UB and they should be able to expand quickly. They’ll definitely want to also as they are graced with a relatively large tract to start with and natural barriers on multiple fronts. This should allow Lenin to build up a strong proletariat core in eastern Europe with which they have many avenues of expansion. Finland and the Teutonic Order seem first on the list, though much like their real-life counterparts, they may have to contend with Germany for much of those lands. My own hopes for the USSR is that they do not war with PA-RG early on for a worthy Russia-off later in the game. I also anticipate the worker spam jokes.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 48
  scene_title: "Lesotho"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene48.jpg
  narration: "<p>Gragg</p><p></p><p>For as long as there has been a cbr, the South African civ has been a favorite to win the whole thing. Lesotho is the spiritual successor to the Boers and Zimbabwe, but our expectations are much lower. Their starting location is a lot more crowded this time around, with an extra civ being added to the region. While their meme game is strong, their strength isn’t exactly legendary. A couple defensive bonuses should help them stick around for a while. Unfortunately, it seems half of the African civs have defensive bonuses. Time will tell if anyone will be able to snowball in the continent.</p>"
- scene_number: 49
  scene_title: "Mapuche"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene49.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rose</p><p>The Mapuche have shown themselves to be a competent competitor in previous AI games ranking at 13th according to the power rankers. For starters, they are starting out in the beloved south of south America, I.E Brazil and the Guay, and the Mapuche have a whole lot of expansion space. Additionally, said expansion place is hard to reach, plagued with mountains and rivers. As someone who has ran a bunch of AI games on their own time, I can testify that most of the time, the number 1 threat to an invasion effort, is a defensive terrain. There is one huge problem with this exact location however as there's no way to break out early on, except for upward or with frigates into the Oceania with a long con, but who knows that may be what Lautaro is hoping to do</p>"
- scene_number: 50
  scene_title: "Mississippi"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene50.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rose</p><p>M-i-s-s-i-s-s-i-p-p-i, sing that to yourself whenever you forget how to spell this badboy of a civ, which even United States residents have trouble spelling from time to time. The Mississippi have a really good starting location, being nigh-all plains, and a fair amount of space. Additionally, the civ has one hell of UA with maize economy, which buffs the food output of cities surrounding larger cities. In the majority of the small amount of sketto test games that I've seen, this allows for the civ to blob out, while being able to defend themselves with relative ease. While this is a hypothetical over extension senario in place, there is still a large chance that this sets them up into the position for being an early power. The only thing keeping them down is their proximity to two potential super powers, Rio Grande and the Neutral nation both of which are valiant foes</p>"
- scene_number: 51
  scene_title: "Gran Colombia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene51.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>Okay first things first. GC will probably not crash the game. For context, back in MK1, Gran Colombia was (probably falsely) blamed for a series of crashes that forced the game to a halt. Number one, the mod’s been worked on since. Number two, the civ probably wasn’t responsible for it- while the crashes happened while the game displayed GC’s turn, that means a lot less than you’d think. Sometimes the game displays the next civ’s turn while still processing the prior civ’s turn. Sometimes an interaction that actually causes the crash just waits a bit to reveal itself. So yeah, GC probably won’t break the world.</p><p></p><p>No, they’ll prolly just break faces. See, they’re still a Good Civ with a strong aggressive bias (but not so strong to the point of insanity like Paraguay), a pretty good starting area, and weak neighbors (although said neighbors still have Hell Geography in their favor because this is still South America). Liberatadors might make Bolivar a bit better at breaking city-based stalemates than Uruguay was (although not having the strongest defensive civ we’ve ever seen as your first roadblock should also help). A Lancer UU is kinda lame, especially with the abilities it has in particular, but hey, can’t win ‘em all. Really, my biggest question for Bolivar is where he plans to go first. Hopefully he won’t keep us waiting on that one for too long.</p>"
- scene_number: 52
  scene_title: "Punjab"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene52.jpg
  narration: "<p>LonelyRS</p><p></p><p>India’s a subcontinent with a history and culture rich and impressive enough to shame the rest of the world back into the burrows from whence they came, so it’s been more than a little disheartening how subcontinental civs’ recent performances have been utterly nondescript. The Mughals, Sri Lanka, India, all bland, all disappointing, all rolled over in their sleep by civs infinitely more fun to watch. Even the closest thing the area’s had to a stab at true contendordom, Maratha, has been tragically mundane, enjoying a brief, orderly rise to a top spot off hype before proceeding to fail so hard to meet expectations that it rolled over and began impressing by merely surviving. So I’m not blaming you if you look upon Punjab with deep, weary-eyed cynicism. But, like, you shouldn’t. Because Punjab is going to be good, and, more importantly, Punjab is going to be fun.</p><p></p><p>Religious civs rarely fulfill their potential in Royales such as these, but Punjab’s start is splayed out all over the toes of one, and their domination-rewarding unique ability should mean they’ll have no problem generating it later down the line, especially given their killer AI. Combine that with faith-based rifleman replacements, a building that boosts siege units, and a vulnerable neighbor in the Chola, and Punjab should be a world power faster than you can recite Japji Sahib. It’s an open question whether they’ll be able to truly go toe-to-toe with the world’s best with Uzbekistan and Kurdistan surrounding their nation like vultures, but Punjab should be exciting, fun, and a major world player. And given what we’ve seen of India so far? That alone should make them more entertaining than any other nation we’ve seen emerge from the subcontinent.</p>"
- scene_number: 53
  scene_title: "Rio Grande"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene53.jpg
  narration: "<p>LonelyRS</p><p>Most top ten civs get there not by virtue of their ceiling, but by virtue of their floor. Birds fly, fish swim, Uruguay becomes the leading power in South America. Those aren’t mere suggestions, they’re immutable laws of the land, and knowing that civ’s at least destined to achieve some small measure of success generally makes them much more likely to find themselves in a high spot in the part 0 rankings, products of compromise as they are. Rio Grande is not most top ten civs. Rio Grande is a rocket aimed at the moon made on a shoestring budget and held together by duct tape and string.</p><p></p><p>Sometimes, their amazingly expansive uniques coupled with a wonderfully passively defensive nature turn them into the axis on which North America turns, a veritable elemental force locked in constant combat with at least one of their many neighbors. Other times, they die horribly. There is no middle ground, no reality where Rio Grande caps out at “good-but-not-great” and resigns itself to a forgettable existence at the margins of the Gulf of Mexico. There are no compromises here. Either Rio Grande becomes a defining part of this game, or they’re gone within the first twenty parts. This starts now. Keep your hands and feet inside the vehicle, fasten your seatbelts, and put on your spacesuits, because pretty soon Rio Grande will either be six thousand miles above the ground or six feet under it.</p>"
- scene_number: 54
  scene_title: "Uzbekistan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene54.jpg
  narration: "<p>Shaggy</p><p></p><p>We’re at the hefty bois now! Uzbekistan, led by Islam Karimov, looks to be an absolute powerhouse this season. Their UA is the basically human sacrifice as a form of resource or unit popping. The free civilian units alone are fantastic. Uzbekistan has a 3.125% chance to spawn a civilian unit each time a city grows with that chance increasing in each city with higher than 5 pop. Come the midgame, I expect Uzbekistan to ooze (Uz?) into every unsettled crack of central Asia, be it from settlers or citadel culture bombing. In addition to one of the coolest and most useful UAs this season (in my opinion), Uzbekistan has an infantry replacement UU that gets double attacks and bonus movement for starting in desert in exchange for weaker combat strength. This is their city killer unit in the modern era, provided they try to use it as such. Additionally, their UB boosts the raw production output of a city in a bit of a roundabout way and allows a city to perform Civ 6-style resource chops on sea resources. “But wait, Shaggy! A civ with bonuses that good has to start somewhere with a geographic disadvantage so it’s balanced.” HA! Uzbekistan has a ton of land to work with and natural boundaries with some of its stronger neighbors. Given their ability to ramp up given the chance, I have high hopes for Uzbekistan this season.</p><p></p>"
- scene_number: 55
  scene_title: "Manchu"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene55.jpg
  narration: "<p>Gragg</p><p></p><p>Manchu is one of the few civs in S2 that already have a reputation for doing well in AI games. Fortunately, reputation alone doesn’t win CBR. Still, their uniques and ai are well suited for this format of game and they are certainly a candidate for regional power. There are a few other nearby could-be superpowers that keep Manchu outside the top 5 however. Their power spike should be around the renaissance era. If they can establish a good core by then, Asia should start looking a lot more yellow.</p>"
- scene_number: 56
  scene_title: "PA-RG"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene56.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax</p><p></p><p>PA-RG, otherwise known as All-Russia, have a top ten spot by default. Last season the Kazakhs turned a mediocre game into a top 3 finish, purely on the vast amount of land they had available. Prior to that, Sibir dominated Asia in Mk 2. So a civ that starts in the enviable central Russian position is guaranteed to do well... right?</p><p></p><p>Well, if there’s any game to change those fortunes, it’ll be this one: both Sibir and the Kazakhs benefitted from having a pushover neighbour in Central Asia. But Uzbekistan are tipped to be a more formidable foe this time. If they turn their attentions to the north, PA-RG might find their fortunes run out faster than imagined. If they do make it the modern era, they’ll find themselves with a couple of powerful unique units. The Legione Redenta in particular can be produced quickly and has the same promotion that Assyria’s infamous Siege Tower carries, giving nearby units a huge boost to city attack. In order to get there, they’ll need to be a confident settler - they have the space, but nearby civs like Perm, the Northern Yuan and the aforementioned Uzbekistan will likely be expanding quickly too. Get a strong land base behind the Urals, and we can expect another huge threat from the Siberians. </p>"
- scene_number: 57
  scene_title: "Germany"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene57.jpg
  narration: "<p>Altima</p><p></p><p>In my own personal rankings, I gave Sweden 2 and Germany 3. This is because as far as I’m concerned, one of them is gonna murder a large chunk of this continent, and it could reasonably be either of them. Think back to CBRX1 with Qin and Qing, except both are murderous psychopaths so we should have a better idea which one is better faster. Germany has a strong history of performance, a solid UA and a solid UU in the Stormtrooper should they get to that point, and a good start with multiple viable directions to push into, including the juicy and incompetent Teutonic Order. Wilhelm has options for days.</p><p></p><p>Now, this is also their weakness and part of why I put them below Sweden- we’ve seen the AI decision paralysis itself to death when granted too many Options. Sweden has one front to even kinda worry about, and Germany has three (the Teutonic Order does not count). And they do have some competent neighbors to watch out for in the Gauls and (theoretically if Carolus Rex can into a navy) Sweden. If the Gauls, Sicilies, and/or Sweden play particularly strong, we probably will have a bad Germany (as normal for a true-start BR), but if we don’t, or if Wilhelm can do what he never could IRL and actually fight a war good, we might have our first actually good Germany in CBR history.</p>"
- scene_number: 58
  scene_title: "Neutral Nation"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene58.jpg
  narration: "<p>Rose</p><p>Dont let their unassuming name fool you, the neutral nation aren’t one to be messed with. For one, the Neutral Nation has a really good starting spot, which has more expansion room than anyone else in the continent. While that doesn't mean to much on its own, the Neutral Nation has enough quality to match its quantity. The Nation has the majority of its territory under grasslands, which on its own is a good source of food generation, they also have the production capability to actually get their high pop to use. There is also the civ’s uniques being kickass, one of those being the flint buffs. When a neutral “Chonnonton War Band” (replacement for the swordsman) is on a source of Flint(note flint replaces iron for the Neutral Nation once they reach gunpower where iron is obsolete), they can instantly upgrade straight to Musketmen which can stack really well if the ai doesnt upgrade to longswords men. There is one more ace in the hole that may actually turn out to be the Neutral Nation‘s strongest, that being when ever a captured city is in resistance, the Iroqouis gain a weakened unit EVERY TURN THE CITY IS UNDER RESISTANCE, creating one hell of a standing army. Even when compared to its strong as hell neighbors there is a good chance the Neutral Nation will stand the test of time.</p>"
- scene_number: 59
  scene_title: "Zaire"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene59.jpg
  narration: "<p>Vihreaa</p><p></p><p>Ranking at a respectable third in our part 0 power rankings, we see Mobutu Sese Seko leading the great state of Zaire. Starting in what is today the Congo, the power ranking community have unofficially crowned them as the next inheritor to the great expanse of Southern Africa. From our last two royales, we have seen world tier powers come out of this region of the world, and have reason to believe it can happen again. Though powers have come close, like the Boers and Zimbabwe, both failed to make the world theirs. Will the CBRX2 be the time for African domination?</p>"
- scene_number: 60
  scene_title: "Sweden"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene60.jpg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej  </p><p>Now, I'm torn on Sweden. On one hand, you have one of the most competent, aggressive, and expansive AIs we've seen in the CBR. On top of that, Scandinavia in the CBR have produced leaders like Ragnar and Gustavus Adolphus who, while they did not win, performed admirably and held on until the Top 10. Armed with this, Karl XII is a clear contender for this Season.</p><p>And yet, I still have some doubts. We've seen an AI's expansiveness get them into trouble before like the Songhai. Europe has other possible contenders in the form of Germany, Spain, USSR, and potentially even Kosovo. There's always the chance a poor AI roll could lead to a less than stellar Sweden. While these options are clearly a minority, they are enough to warrant me to hold off on blasting Sabaton for now.</p>"
- scene_number: 61
  scene_title: "Northern Yuan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season2-pr0-scene61.jpg
  narration: "<p>Lacsirax</p><p></p><p>We finally come to our #1 pick, and it’s the fierce Northern Yuan - a clumsily named empire, especially with the bog standard Yuan also in the game, but their uniques are anything but. Like many of the steppes civ, their pièce de resistance is those sweet horsemen, baby. Specifically a lancer replacement, the Chongzu, which can attack cities with no penalty and gains experience twice as fast. Don’t snort at their unique trebuchet either, the Huihui Pao, which can attack without setting up if it chops down a forest in the same turn. Powerful uniques - but both fairly early game (by CBR standards at least), so for much of the game they won’t be much help. Their UA will, though - the Northern Yuan can damage cities just by killing nearby units. Yikes.</p><p></p><p>All of that combined with a roomy spot up in the Mongolian steppes. But wait... haven’t we seen this before? Power rankers hyping up a Mongolian based civ with powerful, militaristic and often horsey uniques? Yes, for two CBRs on the trot now the civ in this position has disappointed us with their relative passivity. But if previous games with the Nyuan have proved anything, it’s that they’re hardly ones to sit back and watch, Khamug style. And even the peaceful civs who start here usually make it to the late game - so a civ with a real hunger for power stands to do brilliantly. We’ve high hopes for Mandukhai - let’s hope he isn’t the third steppe king on the trot to tread on our dreams.</p>"
---
