---
title: "Power Rankings: Episode 33"
narrated_by: "Power-Rankers"
description: "Power Rankings! The rankings…of power! Dun dun dunnnn!"
release_date: December 03, 2024
pr: S4
date: 2024-12-03T00:00:00.000Z
image: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene01.jpeg
scenes:
- scene_number: 01
  scene_title: "Khoshuts"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene01.jpeg
  narration: "<p>NopeCopter: </p><p></p><p>And so ends the tale of the Khoshuts, and what an absolute ride it was. Initially voted in as a part of the Oirat trio alongside the Kalmyks and Dzungars, the Khoshuts actually got off to a solid start as they settled a large area relatively quickly… only for people to realize that they were completely ignoring the fertile land along the Ganges in favor of settling more fairly worthless Himalayan cities. This allowed Siam of all civs to secure the Ganges delta, and Harappa managed to gobble up a fair bit of land as well before the Khoshuts finally got the memo and started placing cities in places that actually had Food potential. Regardless of their odd settling habits, things were still looking fairly positive for the Khoshuts, and they were placed firmly around the top third… until the fateful war with their brothers the Dzungars. The more prepared Dzungar military easily took the undefended city of Gyangtse, but the real killer came in the peace deal, where the Khoshuts unceremoniously handed over the city of Lhasa - their second city, located right in the middle of their empire - for no reason whatsoever.</p><p></p><p>Obviously, this instantly turned all the hope for the Khoshuts into ridicule and frustration, and the Khoshuts sure didn’t seem eager to redeem themselves as they only launched a few token invasions of their more relevant neighbors, to no effect whatsoever. Even getting dragged into a three-way war with Siam and Dai Viet couldn’t make them remotely interesting as they aggressively failed to take the undefended Siamese city of Nakhon Ratchasima. They did almost kind of threaten to take a city off the Shang, but they followed this up with ANOTHER city gift, this time to Siam, so before long they had quickly become the biggest joke on the cylinder. An incompetent, ineffectual civ that seemed to actively WANT to lose, only kept safe by their position in the Himalayas (a position which became less effective with each city given away).</p><p></p><p>But then… then things began to change. The first sign was a city gift, not from the Khoshuts, but TO the Khoshuts, from Dai VIet - only for Dai Viet to immediately declare war on Siam to try and take Nakhon Ratchasima, kickstarting a Holy War that immediately put them back at war with Dai Viet. In essence, a free city for no actual peace. This did result in Siam just capturing the city gift for themselves, and the second Khoshut assault on Nakhon Ratchasima failed just as the first did, but it served as a hint that maybe, just maybe, the Khoshuts had something more going on behind that incompetent facade. The Khoshuts went silent for an episode after this, giving the sense that maybe their insane gambit was just a fluke, only to suddenly show their hand all at once in Episode 22. The Afsharids declared war on a weakened Harappa, seemingly poised to wipe them off the map, and the Khoshuts joined the fight as well - not something that seemed particularly relevant, given their prior war record.</p><p></p><p>Over the course of the next episode and a half, the Khoshuts proceeded to take and hold all four Harappan cities.</p><p></p><p>This was absolutely unprecedented, for such a minor power to effectively double their size by sniping an ENTIRE EMPIRE during a coalition war, and it instantly put the Khoshuts back on the map both figuratively and literally. The most insane part of the whole situation, however, was that it was only the beginning. Vijayanagara attempted to take the new Khoshut gains for themselves while they were vulnerable, but despite their tech advantage they were completely stalled out. Then, after a short reprieve, the Khoshuts were suddenly faced with a three-way coalition of the Afsharids, Dzungars, and Bukhara… which actually resulted in a net GAIN of one city as they not only held their borders but finally retook Lhasa from the Dzungars after so many turns of humiliation. This was followed up with yet another declaration of war against Siam, and unlike the previous ineffective stalemates, this time the Khoshuts were able to swoop in and quickly take not only Nakhon Ratchasima but also their OTHER gifted city of Shigatse. Granted, Siam was in the middle of being eviscerated by the Wahgi right after being torn up by Singapore, but this was still an efficient and effective war - the narrator of the episode even noted that the Khoshuts really could have gone further. Against all odds, Gushi Khan had done it: he had regained his honor and taken his empire from a laughing-stock to a fan favorite.</p><p></p><p>Unfortunately, no sooner had the Khoshuts regained their honor than their enemies finally decided to wipe them off the map for good. The Afsharids and Dzungars invaded once more, and this time, the Afsharids in particular were ready. It was a brutal lightning campaign, ignoring both the Great Wall and the mountainous defenses of the Khoshuts through excellent use of the Afshairds’ highly mobile units and brand-new air force. By the end of Episode 32, the Khoshuts had lost not only all of the former Harappan cities they’d taken from under the Afsharids’ noses, but they were poised to lose their hard-fought recapture of Lhasa, as well. They plummeted 16 spots in the Power Rankings. They were still placed above five other civilizations. By the end of the next episode, they were dead in 44th - before any of the critically-endangered rump states beneath them. It was a shocking display of the Afsharids’ efficiency, and a tragically sudden end to a civilization people had only just come to love.</p><p></p><p>At some point during this season, rotting away in the Himalayas amidst a sea of their own failures, the Khoshuts were given a choice: to continue to dimly smolder away in the mountains as just another ineffective mountain turtle, or to risk it all, veer straight off the road they’d been placed on, and burn so bright that nobody could possibly ignore them. The Khoshuts, thankfully for all of us, chose the latter. But the brightest flames burn out the quickest, and the Khoshuts were too good to stay with us for long. Do not fret. This was the choice they made. The reckless play of the Khoshuts in their final few episodes led to their early demise, but in exchange they gained a different sort of immortality that only a lucky few ever obtain in the CBR - a run no other civilization could ever replicate, a character arc that made them feel almost human, a piece of CBR lore to stand alongside the likes of Laos and Castile. The Khoshuts are the first Oirats to leave this mortal coil, but as the Kalmyks sit on two cities pecked away by Citadels and the Dzungars rot in their own mediocrity, they will surely be the last to leave our memory. F.</p>"
- scene_number: 02
  scene_title: "Tiwanaku"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene02.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej:  </p><p></p><p>In a brutal twist, the war between New Holland and Tiwanaku takes a surprising turn as forces cross Ecuador and Bora-Bora to invade Huyustus's last city. It's only a matter of time before a Great War Infantry marches into the city gates and eliminates this former contender.</p>"
- scene_number: 03
  scene_title: "Ecuador"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene03.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Orange:</p><p></p><p>Well the Mexican war has gone disastrously and now Pariti remains as the last stronghold of the Ecuadorian people. But it’s not as bad as it could be! They could be the neighboring city state of Tiwanaku who are even closer to death’s door! It is real funny that both of these two got crushed at about the same time and are gonna go out right next to each other in cities right next to each other. </p>"
- scene_number: 04
  scene_title: "Siam"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene04.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Cloudy:</p><p></p><p>Siam jumps an amazing three ranks due to not being at war with anyone while the three civs below it are either dead or about to die. See you at the top?</p>"
- scene_number: 05
  scene_title: "Visigoths"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene05.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Reformer: Well, technically, Visigoths are in a bunch of wars, but only two civs can realistically reach ‘em before paratroopers come online. Faroes were at war with them…but didn’t care enough to wait, good for them. New Holland is another civ that’s theoretically in reach, but again, paratroopers are required for such an endeavour. So in the meantime the inland city-state of Visigoths is pretty safe comparatively. But we’re past the point of easy conquest for sure. Visigoths could drop any second now. And it’ll be like the embers extinguishing rather than a bomb going off. </p>"
- scene_number: 06
  scene_title: "Kalmyks"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene06.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Nathanmasse:</p><p></p><p>The Kalmyks are surely counting their blessings that they did not get dragged into any of the conflicts erupting around them.  A rising tide lifts all boats as they say, so as long as they continue to fly under the radar they will keep creeping up through the ranks.</p>"
- scene_number: 07
  scene_title: "Vijayanagara"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene07.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej:  </p><p></p><p>Despite losing nearly all of their remaining cities, Vijayanagara gains two ranks from other civs doing worse than they had. Granted those two civs are now dead and about to be, but hey, its not Vijayanagara at the moment. Still, the two non-coastal cities Krishnadevaraya has will be harder for Singapore to  take without a solid land army. The Afhsarids though? That could be an issue if they throw out a DoW on the sick man of India.</p>"
- scene_number: 08
  scene_title: "Makhnovia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene08.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Cloudy:</p><p></p><p>It’s crazy what four cities with barely any land tiles left can get you these days. Ranks just ain’t worth what they used to be. *Yells at cloud*</p>"
- scene_number: 09
  scene_title: "Kanem-Bornu"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene09.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Orange:</p><p></p><p>Sierra Leone has invented planes, things are not good. Ngazargamu is about to fall and is gonna leave Kanem-Bornu with some really not great cities, they aren’t dead yet, but if Sierra Leone wanted to they could go all the way. So K-B basically just has to pray Sierra leone doesn’t want a big relationship malus. </p>"
- scene_number: 10
  scene_title: "England"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene10.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Orange:</p><p></p><p>Nancy has somehow not fallen, but like, it probably will soon. Not much more past it though, especially since Nancy is fully split off from the rest of England’s cities. One more wound onto their bleeding body. </p>"
- scene_number: 11
  scene_title: "Finns"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene11.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej:  </p><p></p><p>The Finns are at thirty four.  </p><p>But that isn't good any more.  </p><p>Cuz it's now bottom ten,  </p><p>So it's a matter of when,  </p><p>The Finns are shown the door.</p>"
- scene_number: 12
  scene_title: "Bukhara"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene12.jpeg
  narration: "<p>NopeCopter: </p><p></p><p>Bukhara once again reminds everyone why they are the GOAT of Grit, the ultimate underdog, the pluckiest force on the cylinder, by throwing hands with Kazan and even sniping a city. Of course, this really doesn’t mean much in the long run since the Selkups or the Afshairds (or potentially even the Dzungars) could run them over at a moment’s notice, but respect for still trying in spite of that.</p>"
- scene_number: 13
  scene_title: "Nivkh"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene13.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Nathanmasse:</p><p></p><p>It was a bit of a rough episode for Nivkh. They clawed back Ytyk’ from Thule, defended it tooth and nail, but ended up giving it right back in a peace treaty.  Well, at least Nivkh itself lives on, but each one of these slow grinding wars weakens them further.  I only hope that when their time does come, they get to go out in a blaze of glory rather than being slowly constricted and snuffed out.</p>"
- scene_number: 14
  scene_title: "Seneca"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene14.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Reformer: </p><p></p><p>Yeah, Seneca is still here, in case you were concerned. </p>"
- scene_number: 15
  scene_title: "Mongolia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene15.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Reformer: </p><p></p><p>Yeah, Mongolia is still here- Oh, I already used that line. Alright, let’s see. Mongolia never recovered from the beating Goguryeo and Selkups gave them. Even though Goguryeo didn’t end up getting all that much Mongolian land, I’ll readily argue that Goguryeo’s contribution to Mongolia’s collapse was much greater. Goguryeo spent ages weakening Mongolia, and Selkups simply swooped in at the opportune moment. Credit where credit is due, of course, but realistically Goguryeo did all the work. …Either way, my point is that Mongolia was doomed well before the collapse. They simply did not have the juice. Alas they cannot all be winners.</p>"
- scene_number: 16
  scene_title: "Kazan"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene16.jpeg
  narration: "<p>CelestialDalek:Ouch. Kazan is kallapsing right now under the weight of the Selkup military, and the walls are kalozing in on them. Even though their tech levels of ground forces are *similar*, with riflemen-on-rifleman action composing most of the battles, the airforce has really screwed Kazan over. They can’t defend their cities from being bombarded, they can’t defend from cavalry, they can’t defend from the incoming horde however thin-looking it is. This war has not necessarily developed in their favor, and the quickest way out would be a nice and easy peace deal.</p>"
- scene_number: 17
  scene_title: "Qarmatians"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene17.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Reformer: </p><p></p><p>Time ran past Qarmatians ages ago. We all still remember that young and spry Qarmatians that challenged the Afsharids and came up victorious. Or the nailbiter of a war against Pontus. Literal hundreds of turns ago. Since then, they’ve been in inconsequential wars against the likes of Saba, Vijayanagara, and Mogadishu, sure, but any actual glory was short-lived. And honestly, in hindsight…it wasn’t even all that impressive. Yeah, I said it. Qarmatians weren’t and aren’t impressive. They did not live up to expectations. And now they’re just waiting to die. Ah, what could’ve been…</p>"
- scene_number: 18
  scene_title: "Ikko Ikki"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene18.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Cloudy:</p><p></p><p>Another part with nothing new from Ikko Ikki. Their stats ranking jumped 6 places and they have 70 techs, just about catching up to the top tier, but they remain as screwed as ever. They even have advanced weapons like artillery and destroyers now. Still screwed.</p>"
- scene_number: 19
  scene_title: "Taino"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene19.jpeg
  narration: "<p>CelestialDalek:</p><p></p><p>Do you want to talk about the Taino? TaiNO! </p>"
- scene_number: 20
  scene_title: "Bavaria"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene20.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Cloudy:</p><p></p><p>It’s amazing how 25th place is just worthless now. I mean, we literally put Bavaria there. Madness.</p>"
- scene_number: 21
  scene_title: "Osage"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene21.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Reformer: </p><p></p><p>Osage is in a box, and the walls are closing in. Walls covered in spikes. Damn that sure is a nasty way to go. But I digress. Mexico and Yellowknives are inevitable reapers for the plucky plains civ. It’s a shame, too, because Osage obviously have that dawg in them. They just got barraged too much for bullying Shawnee so early, and ever since their life has just been a struggle for survival. It is honestly a testament to their willpower that they are as strong as they are right now. Which isn’t particularly strong mind you. But they’re not a rump state either. It’s an achievement worth being proud about. </p>"
- scene_number: 22
  scene_title: "Dzungars"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene22.jpeg
  narration: "<p>NopeCopter: </p><p></p><p>The Dzungars rise one spot on the Power Rankings because Kazan is dying. Note that the Dzungars are not responsible for or even really benefiting from this in any way, which is concerning considering how close they are to the actual benefactor (the Selkups). I’m sure there’s some smug satisfaction to be gained from watching Kazan go down like a sack of bricks for the Dzungars, but it’s a bit of a hollow victory considering we all know who’s next on the chopping block.</p>"
- scene_number: 23
  scene_title: "Saba-D’mt"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene23.jpeg
  narration: "<p>NopeCopter: </p><p></p><p>Saba-D’mt continues their riveting back-and-forth duel with Pontus over Damietta. Meanwhile, Sierra Leone has started to actually conquer Kanem-Bornu, Mogadishu continues their Indian Ocean exploits, and even Ndongo is getting an air force online. Saba-D’mt has unfortunately fallen deep into mediocrity, and climbing their way out of this pit is going to be way harder than the one they fell into on Episode 1.</p>"
- scene_number: 24
  scene_title: "Noongar"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene24.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej:  </p><p></p><p>Yagan continues to exist purely at the whims of the Wahgi. If Bo'lim ever decides to use the more than dozen rocket artillery to lay waste to the Noongar, it could quickly be the end for them. Sure they could go for Palawa, but at this point, any loss of military power could lead to Wahgi storming the beaches of  Western Australia.</p>"
- scene_number: 25
  scene_title: "Pontus"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene25.jpeg
  narration: "<p>CelestialDalek:</p><p></p><p>Unfortunately for their chances, Pontus has decided to waste buckets of their military on the back-and-forth tussle over Damietta. But hey Saba won’t retake it for like another 3 turns. The problem is they don’t have too many good targets. The Qarmatians are cannon fodder, but beyond they Mithridates will have to try and get through the Balkans to attack Bavaria. Probably not happening. At least just fight Rome and, if you lose, go out in style.</p>"
- scene_number: 26
  scene_title: "Mogadishu"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene26.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Orange:</p><p></p><p>Mog on the rise again! They didn’t really do much, so it was mostly an increase from their stats going up and just having a nice position. Really, they can go after Saba, Ndongo, or even potentially the Qarmatians. They got the options, and now the stats, so hopefully they can flex their muscles again and put themselves on top of Africa.</p>"
- scene_number: 27
  scene_title: "Ume-Sami"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene27.jpeg
  narration: "<p>CelestialDalek:</p><p></p><p>Ume-Same, Ume-Same old business in Scandinavia. Rijkuo-maja is still too chickenshit to attack the Finns, the Faroes don’t feel like attacking them, the balance of power in Europe remains stagnant.</p>"
- scene_number: 28
  scene_title: "Rome"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene28.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Nathanmasse:</p><p></p><p>Rome’s campaigns in Gaul aren’t going so well.  They managed to flip Nancy once during this episode, but England’s artillery seems too powerful to hold the beachhead around the city.  Each unit that lands on the coast just gets wiped out before it can push any further.  Rome does have open borders with Bavaria and Faroe Islands, so if they’re clever they just might be able to flank the city from the north with Cavalry or something.  But then again, maybe that’s giving the AI too much credit.</p>"
- scene_number: 29
  scene_title: "Ndongo"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene29.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Leman:</p><p></p><p>Not a whole lot going on in Ndongo land. The most impactful thing for them is the collapse of Kanem Bornu. In the PR server a lot of us have been calling Kanem the key to Africa: whoever conquers them will win the continent. Turns out its not Ndongo.</p>"
- scene_number: 30
  scene_title: "Thule"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene30.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Nathanmasse: </p><p></p><p>Thule locked in their gains against Nivkh this week and made peace.  Not all that bad to be honest; they gained three cities and a bridgehead for the next war with the Nivkh if they ever get around to it.  The big issue though is their finances.  They are experiencing a crippling deficit (nearly 1,000 GPT) which is cutting their science by 66%.  They were already facing an uphill battle against the Yellowknives to say the least but now with YK pulling further ahead with every passing turn it’s looking insurmountable. </p>"
- scene_number: 31
  scene_title: "Latvia"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene31.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Cloudy:</p><p></p><p>Latvia has an excellent chance to pick up a lot of territory off of one of their largest neighbors right now if they declare war on the collapsing Kazan. But given how quiet Latvia has been since, well, forever pretty much, we have to imagine it’s unlikely. For the moment we’ve raised Latvia one rank, but if the Selkups completely conquer Kazan and Karlis Ulmanis finds himself with a top 5 power on his doorstep, we might drop Latvia to record lows.</p>"
- scene_number: 32
  scene_title: "Bora-Bora"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene32.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Orange:</p><p></p><p>I’m sad, yet I’m also hopeful. Bora kept Wahgi at bay for a very long time for how far ahead Wahgi is. But sadly, Wahgi finally realized they can embark infantry, and now cities are starting to fall. Still slow, only three originally Boran cities have fallen. But there will probably be a few more, despite the air advantage. Puni really needs to pull out a peace deal real quick before their capital is in danger, but at the very least he can rest well knowing that Wahgi probably isn’t going to go all the way to South America where the new Bora core is. Like, we’re still third on cities, and after Anau falls Wahgi will have just tied us. There’s a lot to go before Bora is out, just hopefully someone else is able to step in and try to stop Wahgi before it's too late.</p>"
- scene_number: 33
  scene_title: "Zheng"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene33.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Cloudy:</p><p></p><p>Zheng slides another rank as they continue to stagnate. Wahgi units are starting to carpet their territory, which is causing other Wahgi neighbors’ ranks to fall as well. Overall, it’s looking like Zheng has probably missed the boat and will end up as a much bigger Ikko Ikki unless Wahgi or Goguryeo unexpectedly collapses.</p>"
- scene_number: 34
  scene_title: "Singapore"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene34.jpeg
  narration: "<p>NopeCopter: </p><p></p><p>Singapore drops a couple spots just due to the rise of a few other major powers, but really, things are looking about the same for them as they did last episode: remarkably good, considering they border the Wahgi. Vijayanagara has been effectively rumped, and securing a base in India has opened up a couple of new potential targets in the Qarmatians and Mogadishu - even the Noongar could be on the table if they play their cards right (which they always do). Acting while the Wahgi are busy is crucial if they want to remain a top player, but given they have open borders with the Wahgi, the odds of the two going to war any time soon seems pretty minimal. They just need to hope that housing the Wahgi armed forces doesn’t prevent them from building too many units of their own.</p>"
- scene_number: 35
  scene_title: "Palawa"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene35.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Nathanmasse:</p><p></p><p>Palawa rises two ranks this week on what I have to assume is stats alone.  They picked an excellent time to join Wahgi in the war against Bora-Bora but got cold feet and abandoned the campaign just when they had the opportunity to make significant gains.  They couldn’t even manage to hold onto one of Bora’s cities.  They really squandered an opportunity and will make me question their competency in each of their wars going forward. </p>"
- scene_number: 36
  scene_title: "Sierra Leone"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene36.jpeg
  narration: "<p>NopeCopter: </p><p></p><p>Well, any fears about Sierra Leone’s war against Kanem-Bornu should be gone now as they slowly but surely make progress against the Great Wall of Africa. They’re getting their air force online too, which is pretty massive. This, however, was not enough to keep Sierra Leone from tumbling two spots down the Power Rankings - not because of something they did or didn’t do, but just because Mexico and the Afsharids did even more. But you know what they say: it’s better to compare yourself to who you were before than to compare yourself to others, and from that perspective, things have never looked better for Sierra Leone.</p>"
- scene_number: 37
  scene_title: "New Holland"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene37.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej:  </p><p></p><p>Don't let the drop fool you, New Holland was pretty good this part. I wasn't expecting their war with Tiwanaku to go anywhere, but it looks like those open borders are paying off! The biggest challenge now will be getting some melee units near the burning city. And with Bora-Bora being chomped on by Wahgi, this gives Johan a chance to become master of South America. If only Mexico hadn't gotten in the way, which is part of the reason New Holland drops. The other reason is...</p>"
- scene_number: 38
  scene_title: "Afsharids"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene38.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Nathanmasse:</p><p></p><p>Afsharids had a spectacular episode and rose 6 ranks this week.  The Khoshuts have been eliminated and now they just need to focus on rebuilding if they’re given enough time to do so.  Once that’s completed they will have no shortage of avenues to expand; Bukhara, Kalmyks, Siam, and Vijayanagara would be easy pickings and even Dzungars and Qarmatians shouldn’t be too much of an issue with the Afsharid’s air superiority.  The one catch is they pushed so far into Khoshut that they now border Wahgi who could just as quickly push the Afsharids back out of this territory if they so choose.</p>"
- scene_number: 39
  scene_title: "Mexico"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene39.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Reformer: </p><p></p><p>Mexico absolutely DECIMATES Ecuador this episode. Immense devastation across the northwest corner of the continent. But more importantly, an immense boost in power, as Mexico acquires eight (!) cities through this war. The cities are weak now, but will inevitably grow to fuel Mexico’s future ambitions. After a time of consolidation, Mexico’s options will be…somewhat limited, let’s say. Despite this upgrade, Mexico is bordered by Yellowknives, New Holland, and Bora-Bora. Further off, Goguryeo and Wahgi could theoretically be threats. Easy expansion options are starting to vanish before our very eyes. Mexico is one of the cases where this is the most apparent. Competition will only get more serious from here, and while Mexico certainly is working hard to keep up the pace, there won’t be much time for rest, realistically. </p>"
- scene_number: 40
  scene_title: "Selkups"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene40.jpeg
  narration: "<p>NopeCopter: </p><p></p><p>The Selkups have proven they deserve their fifth-place ranking this episode by making the exact right move they need to at this moment: invading Kazan. And man, have they been invading Kazan. They’ve already taken several cities, mostly ignoring the normally-difficult Urals, and they seem set to take several more. Depending on how far the Selkups go, they could potentially even end up about on par with the other top powers of the game… and even if they don’t, they’ve at least bought themselves some valuable time and resources to avoid falling too much further behind.</p>"
- scene_number: 41
  scene_title: "Yellowknives"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene41.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Reformer: </p><p></p><p>Yellowknives were pretty quiet this week, but they were working feverishly in the background. Three new techs, starting with Combined Arms for tanks, continuing with Steam Power (mostly for backfilling), and ending up with Refrigeration for submarines. Now they’re researching Radio, the final prereq they need for Electronics (for battleships), which in turn will lead to Radar for better planes…militaristic advancements happen real fast at this point in the game, which Yellowknives will proudly show off. Well. ‘Show off’, as in, build up during peacetime. I would certainly be much happier to see these shiny new weapons get some actual use. Take Thule for example. Bankrupt up the ass. That civ ain’t techin’ shit. They’ll only become an easier target every episode! Only good things in Yellowknives’ future, I’m sure.</p>"
- scene_number: 42
  scene_title: "Goguryeo"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene42.jpeg
  narration: "<p>CelestialDalek:Goguryeo on top! (Note: they are not on the top, merely near the top). Not the most exciting part for Gogurgamers, but we still ball. They could easily take on any of their neighbors not named the Afsharids (the main obstacle there is terrain), only facing a bit more resistance from Zheng but a lot from Wahgi. The possibilities are endless, it’s just that their only war is currently against Shang. And Shang is dead.</p>"
- scene_number: 43
  scene_title: "Faroe Islands"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene43.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Msurdej:  Still sitting in second, Trøndur spent most of the part recovering and incorporating his new English conquests into his territory. This is costing them a whole lotta money, but they still have a fat stack of cash. There was a war with the Visigoths that could have been interesting if he had committed, but alas, it went nowhere. They're still sitting on a massive lead in Europe, with few foes that could really trouble them. It's just a matter of them getting back in the war saddle and going to fight again.</p>"
- scene_number: 44
  scene_title: "Wahgi"
  slide_url: https://cdn.civbattleroyale.tv/season4-pr33-scene44.jpeg
  narration: "<p>Orange:</p><p></p><p>A cruel joke for the biggest Bora-Bora supporter to get both Bora and Wahgi slides to do for the rankings… Wahgi’s performance in this war has been, oof. Despite their insane lead on everyone, they took most of the last two parts to realize they can embark units, but now that they figured that one out they are making a strong push. Wahgi’s main goal for this should just be to not make peace soon (of course my own desire is that they should make white peace immediately), Bora’s core isn’t too great but they don’t have the means to stop Wahgi’s forces. So uh, pour one out for the best, none of Wahgi’s neighbors are anywhere close to them.</p>"
---
